Media Types
==============

The following 34 media type definitions were found in 101 services (22 [W3C](../W3C/), 57 [RFC](../IETF/RFC/), 22 [I-D](../IETF/I-D)):

* application/activity+json : [Activity Streams 2.0](http://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core/ "This specification details a model for representing potential and completed activities using the JSON format." )
* application/api-problem+json : [HTTP Problem Detail](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-appsawg-http-problem "This document defines a ”problem detail” as a way to carry machine-readable details of errors in a HTTP response, to avoid the need to invent new error response formats for HTTP APIs." )
* application/api-problem+xml : [HTTP Problem Detail](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-appsawg-http-problem "This document defines a ”problem detail” as a way to carry machine-readable details of errors in a HTTP response, to avoid the need to invent new error response formats for HTTP APIs." )
* application/atom+xml : [Atom Syndication Format](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4287 "Atom is an XML-based document format that describes lists of related information known as ”feeds”. Feeds are composed of a number of items, known as ”entries”, each with an extensible set of attached metadata. For example, each entry has a title." )
* application/atomcat+xml : [Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5023 "The Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub) is an application-level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources. The protocol is based on HTTP transfer of Atom-formatted representations. The Atom format is documented in the Atom Syndication Format." )
* application/atomdeleted+xml : [The Atom "deleted-entry" Element](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6721 "This specification adds mechanisms to the Atom Syndication Format that publishers of Atom Feed and Entry documents can use to explicitly identify Atom entries that have been removed." )
* application/atomsvc+xml : [Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5023 "The Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub) is an application-level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources. The protocol is based on HTTP transfer of Atom-formatted representations. The Atom format is documented in the Atom Syndication Format." )
* application/cbor : [Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7049 "The Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) is a data format whose design goals include the possibility of extremely small code size, fairly small message size, and extensibility without the need for version negotiation. These design goals make it different from earlier binary serializations such as ASN.1 and MessagePack." )
* application/home+json : [Home Documents](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-nottingham-json-home "This document proposes a ”home document” format for non-browser HTTP clients." )
* application/home+xml : [Home Documents](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wilde-home-xml "The current draft for HTTP Home Documents provides a JSON syntax only. This draft provides an XML syntax for the same underlying data model, so that the concept of HTTP Home Documents can be consistently exposed in both JSON- and XML-based HTTP services." )
* application/jrd+json : [WebFinger](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033 "This specification defines the WebFinger protocol, which can be used to discover information about people or other entities on the Internet using standard HTTP methods. WebFinger discovers information for a URI that might not be usable as a locator otherwise, such as account or email URIs." )
* application/json : [JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159 "JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a lightweight, text-based, language-independent data interchange format. It was derived from the ECMAScript Programming Language Standard. JSON defines a small set of formatting rules for the portable representation of structured data." )
* application/ld+json : [JSON-LD 1.0](http://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld/ "JSON is a useful data serialization and messaging format. This specification defines JSON-LD, a JSON-based format to serialize Linked Data. The syntax is designed to easily integrate into deployed systems that already use JSON, and provides a smooth upgrade path from JSON to JSON-LD. It is primarily intended to be a way to use Linked Data in Web-based programming environments, to build interoperable Web services, and to store Linked Data in JSON-based storage engines." )
* application/ldesc+xml : [Link Descriptions](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wilde-link-desc "Interactions with many resources on the Web are driven by links, and these links often define certain expectations about the interactions (such as HTTP methods being used, media types being sent in the request, or URI parameters being used in a certain way). While these expectations are essential to define the possible framework for interactions, it may be useful to further narrow them down by providing link descriptions, which can help clients to gain more runtime knowledge about the resource they are about to interact with. This memo defines Link Descriptions, a schema and a media type that can be used to describe links by supporting descriptive markup for representing interaction information with links. Link Descriptions can be used by media types (by inclusion or by reference) that seek to make Link Descriptions runtime-capable, without having to create their own representation." )
* application/link-format : [Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6690 "This specification defines Web Linking using a link format for use by constrained web servers to describe hosted resources, their attributes, and other relationships between links. Based on the HTTP Link Header field defined in RFC 5988, the Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format is carried as a payload and is assigned an Internet media type. ”RESTful” refers to the Representational State Transfer (REST) architecture. A well-known URI is defined as a default entry point for requesting the links hosted by a server." )
* application/manifest+json : [Manifest for Web Application](http://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/ "This specification defines a JSON-based manifest that provides developers with a centralized place to put metadata associated with a web application. This includes, but is not limited to, the web application's name, links to icons, as well as the preferred URL to open when a user launches the web application. The manifest also allows developers to declare a default orientation for their web application, as well as providing the ability to set the display mode for the application (e.g., in fullscreen). Additionally, the manifest allows a developer to ”scope” a web application to a URL. This restricts the URLs to which the application can be navigated and provides a means to ”deep link” into a web application from other applications. Using this metadata, user agents can provide developers with means to create user experiences that are more comparable to that of a native application. In addition, this specification defines the manifest link type, which provides a declarative means for a document to be associated with a manifest." )
* application/patch-ops-error+xml : [An Extensible Markup Language (XML) Patch Operations Framework Utilizing XML Path Language (XPath) Selectors](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5261 "Extensible Markup Language (XML) documents are widely used as containers for the exchange and storage of arbitrary data in today's systems. In order to send changes to an XML document, an entire copy of the new version must be sent, unless there is a means of indicating only the portions that have changed. This document describes an XML patch framework utilizing XML Path language (XPath) selectors. These selector values and updated new data content constitute the basis of patch operations described in this document. In addition to them, with basic <add>, <replace>, and <remove> directives a set of patches can then be applied to update an existing XML document." )
* application/powder+xml : [Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER): Description Resources](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/ "The purpose of the Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER) is to provide a means for individuals or organizations to describe a group of resources through the publication of machine-readable metadata, as motivated by the POWDER Use Cases. This document details the creation and lifecycle of Description Resources (DRs), which encapsulate such metadata. These are typically represented in a highly constrained XML dialect that is relatively human-readable. The meaning of such DRs are underpinned by formal semantics, accessible by performing a GRDDL Transform." )
* application/powder-s+xml : [Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER): Description Resources](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/ "The purpose of the Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER) is to provide a means for individuals or organizations to describe a group of resources through the publication of machine-readable metadata, as motivated by the POWDER Use Cases. This document details the creation and lifecycle of Description Resources (DRs), which encapsulate such metadata. These are typically represented in a highly constrained XML dialect that is relatively human-readable. The meaning of such DRs are underpinned by formal semantics, accessible by performing a GRDDL Transform." )
* application/rfc+xml : [The 'XML2RFC' version 3 Vocabulary](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-hoffman-xml2rfc " This document defines the ”XML2RFC” version 3 vocabulary; an XML-based language used for writing RFCs and Internet-Drafts. It is heavily derived from the version 2 vocabulary that is also under discussion. This document obsoletes the v2 grammar described in RFC 2629 and its expected followup, draft-reschke-xml2rfc." )
* application/trig : [TriG](http://www.w3.org/TR/trig/ "The Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a general-purpose language for representing information in the Web. This document defines a textual syntax for RDF called TriG that allows an RDF dataset to be completely written in a compact and natural text form, with abbreviations for common usage patterns and datatypes. TriG is an extension of the Turtle [turtle] format." )
* application/vcard+xml : [xCard: vCard XML Representation](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6351 "This document defines the XML schema of the vCard data format." )
* application/xml : [XML Media Types](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3023 "This document standardizes five new media types - text/xml, application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML). This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix '+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) entities. XML MIME entities are currently exchanged via the HyperText Transfer Protocol on the World Wide Web, are an integral part of the WebDAV protocol for remote web authoring, and are expected to have utility in many domains." )
* application/xml-dtd : [XML Media Types](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3023 "This document standardizes five new media types - text/xml, application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML). This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix '+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) entities. XML MIME entities are currently exchanged via the HyperText Transfer Protocol on the World Wide Web, are an integral part of the WebDAV protocol for remote web authoring, and are expected to have utility in many domains." )
* application/xml-external-parsed-entity : [XML Media Types](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3023 "This document standardizes five new media types - text/xml, application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML). This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix '+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) entities. XML MIME entities are currently exchanged via the HyperText Transfer Protocol on the World Wide Web, are an integral part of the WebDAV protocol for remote web authoring, and are expected to have utility in many domains." )
* application/xml-patch+xml : [A Media Type for XML Patch Operations](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wilde-xml-patch "The XML Patch media type ”application/xml-patch+xml” defines an XML document structure for expressing a sequence of patch operations that are applied to an XML document. The XML Patch document format's foundations are defined in RFC 5261, this specification defines a document format and a media type registration, so that XML Patch documents can be labeled with a media type, for example in HTTP conversations. In addition to the media type registration, this specification also updates RFC 5261 in some aspects, limiting these updates to cases where RFC 5261 needed to be fixed, or was hard to understand." )
* multipart/form-data : [Returning Values from Forms: multipart/form-data](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2388 "This specification defines an Internet Media Type, multipart/form-data, which can be used by a wide variety of applications and transported by a wide variety of protocols as a way of returning a set of values as the result of a user filling out a form." )
* text/event-stream : [Server-Sent Events](http://www.w3.org/TR/eventsource/ " specification defines an API for opening an HTTP connection for receiving push notifications from a server in the form of DOM events. The API is designed such that it can be extended to work with other push notification schemes such as Push SMS." )
* text/html : [Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](http://www.w3.org/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide." )
* text/html : [Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](http://www.w3.org/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide." )
* text/vcard : [vCard Format Specification](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6350 "This document defines the vCard data format for representing and exchanging a variety of information about individuals and other entities (e.g., formatted and structured name and delivery addresses, email address, multiple telephone numbers, photograph, logo, audio clips, etc.).  This document obsoletes RFCs 2425, 2426, and 4770, and updates RFC 2739." )
* text/vtt : [Web Video Text Tracks (WebVTT)](http://www.w3.org/TR/webvtt1/ "This specification defines WebVTT, the Web Video Text Tracks format. Its main use is for marking up external text track resources in connection with the HTML <track> element. WebVTT files provide captions or subtitles for video content, and also text video descriptions, chapters for content navigation, and more generally any form of metadata that is time-aligned with audio or video content." )
* text/xml : [XML Media Types](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3023 "This document standardizes five new media types - text/xml, application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML). This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix '+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) entities. XML MIME entities are currently exchanged via the HyperText Transfer Protocol on the World Wide Web, are an integral part of the WebDAV protocol for remote web authoring, and are expected to have utility in many domains." )
* text/xml-external-parsed-entity : [XML Media Types](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3023 "This document standardizes five new media types - text/xml, application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML). This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix '+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) entities. XML MIME entities are currently exchanged via the HyperText Transfer Protocol on the World Wide Web, are an integral part of the WebDAV protocol for remote web authoring, and are expected to have utility in many domains." )
