# HTTP Request Methods

The following 26 HTTP Request Method definitions were found in 122 services (29 [W3C](../W3C/), 72 [RFC](../IETF/RFC/), 21 [I-D](../IETF/I-D)). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Sedola](https://github.com/dret/sedola) sources. The [official HTTP Request Method registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/http-methods/http-methods.xhtml#methods) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

HTTP Request Method | Description | Specification
-------: | :---------- | :---
`ACL` | "[The ACL method modifies the access control list (which can be read via the DAV:acl property) of a resource. Specifically, the ACL method only permits modification to ACEs that are not inherited, and are not protected.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3744#section-8.1)" | [**RFC 3744**: Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV) Access Control Protocol](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3744 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, message bodies, properties, and reports that define Access Control extensions to the WebDAV Distributed Authoring Protocol. This protocol permits a client to read and modify access control lists that instruct a server whether to allow or deny operations upon a resource (such as HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) method invocations) by a given principal. A lightweight representation of principals as Web resources supports integration of a wide range of user management repositories. Search operations allow discovery and manipulation of principals using human names." )
`BASELINE-CONTROL` | "[A collection can be placed under baseline control with a BASELINE-CONTROL request. When a collection is placed under baseline control, the DAV:version-controlled-configuration property of the collection is set to identify a new version-controlled configuration. This version-controlled configuration can be checked out and then checked in to create a new baseline for that collection.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-12.6)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`BIND` | "[The BIND method modifies the collection identified by the Request-URI, by adding a new binding from the segment specified in the BIND body to the resource identified in the BIND body.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5842#section-4)" | [**RFC 5842**: Binding Extensions to Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5842 "This specification defines bindings, and the BIND method for creating multiple bindings to the same resource. Creating a new binding to a resource causes at least one new URI to be mapped to that resource. Servers are required to ensure the integrity of any bindings that they allow to be created." )
`CHECKIN` | "[A CHECKIN request can be applied to a checked-out version-controlled resource to produce a new version whose content and dead properties are copied from the checked-out resource.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-4.4)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`CHECKOUT` | "[A CHECKOUT request can be applied to a checked-in version-controlled resource to allow modifications to the content and dead properties of that version-controlled resource.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-4.3)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`CONNECT` | "[The CONNECT method requests that the recipient establish a tunnel to the destination origin server identified by the request-target and, if successful, thereafter restrict its behavior to blind forwarding of packets, in both directions, until the tunnel is closed. Tunnels are commonly used to create an end-to-end virtual connection, through one or more proxies, which can then be secured using TLS (Transport Layer Security).](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-4.3.6)" | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation." )
`DELETE` | "[The DELETE method requests that the origin server remove the association between the target resource and its current functionality. In effect, this method is similar to the rm command in UNIX: it expresses a deletion operation on the URI mapping of the origin server rather than an expectation that the previously associated information be deleted.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-4.3.5)" | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation." )
`GET` | "[The GET method requests transfer of a current selected representation for the target resource. GET is the primary mechanism of information retrieval and the focus of almost all performance optimizations. Hence, when people speak of retrieving some identifiable information via HTTP, they are generally referring to making a GET request.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-4.3.1)" | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation." )
`HEAD` | "[The HEAD method is identical to GET except that the server MUST NOT send a message body in the response (i.e., the response terminates at the end of the header section). The server SHOULD send the same header fields in response to a HEAD request as it would have sent if the request had been a GET, except that the payload header fields MAY be omitted. This method can be used for obtaining metadata about the selected representation without transferring the representation data and is often used for testing hypertext links for validity, accessibility, and recent modification.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-4.3.2)" | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation." )
`LABEL` | "[A LABEL request can be applied to a version to modify the labels that select that version. The case of a label name MUST be preserved when it is stored and retrieved. When comparing two label names to decide if they match or not, a server SHOULD use a case-sensitive URL-escaped UTF-8 encoded comparison of the two label names.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-8.2)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`MERGE` | "[The MERGE method performs the logical merge of a specified version (the "merge source") into a specified version-controlled resource (the "merge target"). If the merge source is neither an ancestor nor a descendant of the DAV:checked-in or DAV:checked-out version of the merge target, the MERGE checks out the merge target (if it is not already checked out) and adds the URL of the merge source to the DAV:merge-set of the merge target.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-11.2)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`MKACTIVITY` | "[A MKACTIVITY request creates a new activity resource. A server MAY restrict activity creation to particular collections, but a client can determine the location of these collections from a DAV:activity-collection-set OPTIONS request.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-13.5)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`MKWORKSPACE` | "[A MKWORKSPACE request creates a new workspace resource. A server MAY restrict workspace creation to particular collections, but a client can determine the location of these collections from a DAV:workspace-collection-set OPTIONS request.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-6.3)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`OPTIONS` | "[The OPTIONS method requests information about the communication options available for the target resource, at either the origin server or an intervening intermediary. This method allows a client to determine the options and/or requirements associated with a resource, or the capabilities of a server, without implying a resource action.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-4.3.7)" | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation." )
`PATCH` | "[The PATCH method requests that a set of changes described in the request entity be applied to the resource identified by the Request-URI. The set of changes is represented in a format called a "patch document" identified by a media type. If the Request-URI does not point to an existing resource, the server MAY create a new resource, depending on the patch document type (whether it can logically modify a null resource) and permissions, etc.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5789#section-2)" | [**RFC 5789**: PATCH Method for HTTP](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5789 "Several applications extending the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) require a feature to do partial resource modification. The existing HTTP PUT method only allows a complete replacement of a document. This proposal adds a new HTTP method, PATCH, to modify an existing HTTP resource." )
`POST` | "[The POST method requests that the target resource process the representation enclosed in the request according to the resource's own specific semantics.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-4.3.3)" | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation." )
`PRI` | "[This method is never used by an actual client. This method will appear to be used when an HTTP/1.1 server or intermediary attempts to parse an HTTP/2 connection preface.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7540#section-3.5)" | [**RFC 7540**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7540 "This specification describes an optimized expression of the semantics of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). HTTP/2 enables a more efficient use of network resources and a reduced perception of latency by introducing header field compression and allowing multiple concurrent exchanges on the same connection. It also introduces unsolicited push of representations from servers to clients. This specification is an alternative to, but does not obsolete, the HTTP/1.1 message syntax. HTTP's existing semantics remain unchanged." )
`PUT` | "[The PUT method requests that the state of the target resource be created or replaced with the state defined by the representation enclosed in the request message payload. A successful PUT of a given representation would suggest that a subsequent GET on that same target resource will result in an equivalent representation being sent in a 200 (OK) response. However, there is no guarantee that such a state change will be observable, since the target resource might be acted upon by other user agents in parallel, or might be subject to dynamic processing by the origin server, before any subsequent GET is received. A successful response only implies that the user agent's intent was achieved at the time of its processing by the origin server.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-4.3.4)" | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation." )
`REBIND` | "[The REBIND method removes a binding to a resource from a collection, and adds a binding to that resource into the collection identified by the Request-URI. The request body specifies the binding to be added (segment) and the old binding to be removed (href). It is effectively an atomic form of a MOVE request, and MUST be treated the same way as MOVE for the purpose of determining access permissions.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5842#section-6)" | [**RFC 5842**: Binding Extensions to Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5842 "This specification defines bindings, and the BIND method for creating multiple bindings to the same resource. Creating a new binding to a resource causes at least one new URI to be mapped to that resource. Servers are required to ensure the integrity of any bindings that they allow to be created." )
`REPORT` | "[A REPORT request is an extensible mechanism for obtaining information about a resource. Unlike a resource property, which has a single value, the value of a report can depend on additional information specified in the REPORT request body and in the REPORT request headers.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-3.6)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`SEARCH` | "[The client invokes the SEARCH method to initiate a server-side search. The body of the request defines the query. The server MUST emit an entity matching the WebDAV multistatus format.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5323#section-2)" | [**RFC 5323**: Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV) SEARCH](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5323 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and properties composing Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV) SEARCH, an application of the HTTP/1.1 protocol to efficiently search for DAV resources based upon a set of client-supplied criteria." )
`TRACE` | "[The TRACE method requests a remote, application-level loop-back of the request message. The final recipient of the request SHOULD reflect the message received, excluding some fields described below, back to the client as the message body of a 200 (OK) response with a Content-Type of "message/http". The final recipient is either the origin server or the first server to receive a Max-Forwards value of zero (0) in the request.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-4.3.8)" | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation." )
`UNBIND` | "[The UNBIND method modifies the collection identified by the Request-URI by removing the binding identified by the segment specified in the UNBIND body.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5842#section-5)" | [**RFC 5842**: Binding Extensions to Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5842 "This specification defines bindings, and the BIND method for creating multiple bindings to the same resource. Creating a new binding to a resource causes at least one new URI to be mapped to that resource. Servers are required to ensure the integrity of any bindings that they allow to be created." )
`UNCHECKOUT` | "[An UNCHECKOUT request can be applied to a checked-out version-controlled resource to cancel the CHECKOUT and restore the pre-CHECKOUT state of the version-controlled resource.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-4.5)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`UPDATE` | "[The UPDATE method modifies the content and dead properties of a checked-in version-controlled resource (the "update target") to be those of a specified version (the "update source") from the version history of that version-controlled resource.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-7.1)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
`VERSION-CONTROL` | "[A VERSION-CONTROL request can be used to create a version-controlled resource at the request-URL. It can be applied to a versionable resource or to a version-controlled resource.](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253#section-3.5)" | [**RFC 3253**: Versioning Extensions to WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning)](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3253 "This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and resource types that define the WebDAV (Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning) versioning extensions to the HTTP/1.1 protocol. WebDAV versioning will minimize the complexity of clients that are capable of interoperating with a variety of versioning repository managers, to facilitate widespread deployment of applications capable of utilizing the WebDAV Versioning services. WebDAV versioning includes automatic versioning for versioning-unaware clients, version history management, workspace management, baseline management, activity management, and URL namespace versioning." )
