---
layout:    page
title:     "HTTP Transfer Codings"
permalink: /concepts/http-transfer-coding/
---



The following 7 HTTP Transfer Coding values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official HTTP Transfer Coding registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/http-parameters/http-parameters.xhtml#transfer-coding) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

HTTP Transfer Coding | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`chunked`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/chunked "The chunked transfer coding wraps the payload body in order to transfer it as a series of chunks, each with its own size indicator, followed by an OPTIONAL trailer containing header fields.  Chunked enables content streams of unknown size to be transferred as a sequence of length-delimited buffers, which enables the sender to retain connection persistence and the recipient to know when it has received the entire message.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`compress`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/compress "The &#34;compress&#34; coding is an adaptive Lempel-Ziv-Welch (LZW) coding that is commonly produced by the UNIX file compression program &#34;compress&#34;. A recipient SHOULD consider &#34;x-compress&#34; to be equivalent to &#34;compress&#34;.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`deflate`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/deflate "The &#34;deflate&#34; coding is a &#34;zlib&#34; data format containing a &#34;deflate&#34; compressed data stream that uses a combination of the Lempel-Ziv (LZ77) compression algorithm and Huffman coding.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`gzip`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/gzip "The &#34;gzip&#34; coding is an LZ77 coding with a 32-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) that is commonly produced by the gzip file compression program. A recipient SHOULD consider &#34;x-gzip&#34; to be equivalent to &#34;gzip&#34;.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`identity`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/identity "The default (identity) encoding; the use of no transformation whatsoever. This content-coding is used only in the Accept-Encoding header, and SHOULD NOT be used in the Content-Encoding header.") | [**RFC 2616**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1](/specs/IETF/RFC/2616 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems. It is a generic, stateless, protocol which can be used for many tasks beyond its use for hypertext, such as name servers and distributed object management systems, through extension of its request methods, error codes and headers. A feature of HTTP is the typing and negotiation of data representation, allowing systems to be built independently of the data being transferred. HTTP has been in use by the World-Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This specification defines the protocol referred to as &#34;HTTP/1.1&#34;, and is an update to RFC 2068.")
[`x-compress`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/x-compress "The &#34;compress&#34; coding is an adaptive Lempel-Ziv-Welch (LZW) coding that is commonly produced by the UNIX file compression program &#34;compress&#34;. A recipient SHOULD consider &#34;x-compress&#34; to be equivalent to &#34;compress&#34;.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`x-gzip`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/x-gzip "The &#34;gzip&#34; coding is an LZ77 coding with a 32-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) that is commonly produced by the gzip file compression program. A recipient SHOULD consider &#34;x-gzip&#34; to be equivalent to &#34;gzip&#34;.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../http-transfer-coding.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
