---
layout:    page
title:     "HTTP Content Codings"
permalink: /concepts/http-content-codings
---



The following 10 HTTP Content Coding definitions (10 distinct values) were found in [138 specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official HTTP Content Coding registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/http-parameters/http-parameters.xhtml#content-coding) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

HTTP Content Coding | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`aesgcm`](/concepts/http-content-coding/aesgcm) | [**Internet Draft ietf-httpbis-encryption-encoding**: Encrypted Content-Encoding for HTTP](/specs/IETF/I-D/ietf-httpbis-encryption-encoding "This memo introduces a content coding for HTTP that allows message payloads to be encrypted.")
[`br`](/concepts/http-content-coding/br) | [**RFC 7932**: Brotli Compressed Data Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/7932 "This specification defines a lossless compressed data format that compresses data using a combination of the LZ77 algorithm and Huffman coding, with efficiency comparable to the best currently available general-purpose compression methods.")
[`compress`](/concepts/http-content-coding/compress) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`deflate`](/concepts/http-content-coding/deflate) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`exi`](/concepts/http-content-coding/exi) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/exi**: Efficient XML Interchange (EXI) Format 1.0](/specs/W3C/TR/exi "This document is the specification of the Efficient XML Interchange (EXI) format. EXI is a very compact representation for the Extensible Markup Language (XML) Information Set that is intended to simultaneously optimize performance and the utilization of computational resources. The EXI format uses a hybrid approach drawn from the information and formal language theories, plus practical techniques verified by measurements, for entropy encoding XML information. Using a relatively simple algorithm, which is amenable to fast and compact implementation, and a small set of datatype representations, it reliably produces efficient encodings of XML event streams. The grammar production system and format definition of EXI are presented.")
[`gzip`](/concepts/http-content-coding/gzip) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`identity`](/concepts/http-content-coding/identity) | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](/specs/IETF/RFC/7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation.")
[`pack200-gzip`](/concepts/http-content-coding/pack200-gzip) | [**JSR 200**: Pack200: A Packed Class Deployment Format For Java Applications](/specs/JCP/JSR/200 "This document specifies an archive format called &#34;Pack200&#34;. It is optimized for applications written in the Javatm programming language. Such applications are usually delivered as collections of classes, sometimes with associated resource files. This format allows any number (from one to hundreds of thousands) of Java classes to be encoded by a compressor, transmitted compactly in a single block of bytes, and decoded by a decompressor into equivalent Java class files. Because it can also represent class resources and other &#34;side files&#34;, it can serve as an alternative to the JAR archive for some deployment tasks, notably downloading Java applications.")
[`x-compress`](/concepts/http-content-coding/x-compress) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`x-gzip`](/concepts/http-content-coding/x-gzip) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
