---
layout:    page
title:     "HTTP Content Codings"
permalink: /concepts/http-content-coding/
---



The following 10 HTTP Content Coding values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official HTTP Content Coding registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/http-parameters/http-parameters.xhtml#content-coding) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

HTTP Content Coding | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`aes128gcm`](/concepts/http-content-coding/aes128gcm "The &#34;aes128gcm&#34; HTTP content coding indicates that a payload has been encrypted using Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) in Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) as identified as AEAD_AES_128_GCM in RFC 5116. The AEAD_AES_128_GCM algorithm uses a 128 bit content encryption key.") | [**RFC 8188**: Encrypted Content-Encoding for HTTP](/specs/IETF/RFC/8188 "This memo introduces a content coding for HTTP that allows message payloads to be encrypted.")
[`br`](/concepts/http-content-coding/br "This specification defines a lossless compressed data format that compresses data using a combination of the LZ77 algorithm and Huffman coding, with efficiency comparable to the best currently available general-purpose compression methods.") | [**RFC 7932**: Brotli Compressed Data Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/7932 "This specification defines a lossless compressed data format that compresses data using a combination of the LZ77 algorithm and Huffman coding, with efficiency comparable to the best currently available general-purpose compression methods.")
[`compress`](/concepts/http-content-coding/compress "The &#34;compress&#34; coding is an adaptive Lempel-Ziv-Welch (LZW) coding that is commonly produced by the UNIX file compression program &#34;compress&#34;. A recipient SHOULD consider &#34;x-compress&#34; to be equivalent to &#34;compress&#34;.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`deflate`](/concepts/http-content-coding/deflate "The &#34;deflate&#34; coding is a &#34;zlib&#34; data format containing a &#34;deflate&#34; compressed data stream that uses a combination of the Lempel-Ziv (LZ77) compression algorithm and Huffman coding.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`exi`](/concepts/http-content-coding/exi "The content-coding value &#34;exi&#34; is registered with the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) for use with EXI. Protocols that can identify and negotiate the content coding of XML information independent of its media type, SHOULD use the content coding &#34;exi&#34; (case-insensitive) to convey the acceptance or actual use of EXI encoding for XML information.") | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/exi**: Efficient XML Interchange (EXI) Format 1.0](/specs/W3C/TR/exi "This document is the specification of the Efficient XML Interchange (EXI) format. EXI is a very compact representation for the Extensible Markup Language (XML) Information Set that is intended to simultaneously optimize performance and the utilization of computational resources. The EXI format uses a hybrid approach drawn from the information and formal language theories, plus practical techniques verified by measurements, for entropy encoding XML information. Using a relatively simple algorithm, which is amenable to fast and compact implementation, and a small set of datatype representations, it reliably produces efficient encodings of XML event streams. The grammar production system and format definition of EXI are presented.")
[`gzip`](/concepts/http-content-coding/gzip "The &#34;gzip&#34; coding is an LZ77 coding with a 32-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) that is commonly produced by the gzip file compression program. A recipient SHOULD consider &#34;x-gzip&#34; to be equivalent to &#34;gzip&#34;.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`identity`](/concepts/http-content-coding/identity "An &#34;identity&#34; token is used as a synonym for &#34;no encoding&#34; in order to communicate when no encoding is preferred.") | [**RFC 7231**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content](/specs/IETF/RFC/7231 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. This document defines the semantics of HTTP/1.1 messages as expressed by request methods, request header fields, response status codes, and response header fields, along with the payload of messages (metadata and body content) and mechanisms for content negotiation.")
[`pack200-gzip`](/concepts/http-content-coding/pack200-gzip "The Pack200 format can decrease the size of a Java application by a factor of seven to nine, compared with an equivalent JAR containing uncompressed (&#34;stored&#34;) class files. By contrast, using the zip DEFLATE algorithm integral to JAR and ZIP archives gains a factor of two.") | [**JSR 200**: Pack200: A Packed Class Deployment Format For Java Applications](/specs/JCP/JSR/200 "This document specifies an archive format called &#34;Pack200&#34;. It is optimized for applications written in the Javatm programming language. Such applications are usually delivered as collections of classes, sometimes with associated resource files. This format allows any number (from one to hundreds of thousands) of Java classes to be encoded by a compressor, transmitted compactly in a single block of bytes, and decoded by a decompressor into equivalent Java class files. Because it can also represent class resources and other &#34;side files&#34;, it can serve as an alternative to the JAR archive for some deployment tasks, notably downloading Java applications.")
[`x-compress`](/concepts/http-content-coding/x-compress "The &#34;compress&#34; coding is an adaptive Lempel-Ziv-Welch (LZW) coding that is commonly produced by the UNIX file compression program &#34;compress&#34;. A recipient SHOULD consider &#34;x-compress&#34; to be equivalent to &#34;compress&#34;.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`x-gzip`](/concepts/http-content-coding/x-gzip "The &#34;gzip&#34; coding is an LZ77 coding with a 32-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) that is commonly produced by the gzip file compression program. A recipient SHOULD consider &#34;x-gzip&#34; to be equivalent to &#34;gzip&#34;.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../http-content-coding.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
