---
layout:    page
title:     "HTTP Transfer Codings"
permalink: /concepts/http-transfer-codings
---



The following 7 HTTP Transfer Coding definitions (7 distinct values) were found in [139 specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official HTTP Transfer Coding registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/http-parameters/http-parameters.xhtml#transfer-coding) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

HTTP Transfer Coding | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`chunked`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/chunked) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`compress`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/compress) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`deflate`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/deflate) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`gzip`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/gzip) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`identity`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/identity) | [**RFC 2616**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1](/specs/IETF/RFC/2616 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems. It is a generic, stateless, protocol which can be used for many tasks beyond its use for hypertext, such as name servers and distributed object management systems, through extension of its request methods, error codes and headers. A feature of HTTP is the typing and negotiation of data representation, allowing systems to be built independently of the data being transferred. HTTP has been in use by the World-Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This specification defines the protocol referred to as &#34;HTTP/1.1&#34;, and is an update to RFC 2068.")
[`x-compress`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/x-compress) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`x-gzip`](/concepts/http-transfer-coding/x-gzip) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
