---
layout:    page
title:     "JSON Web Token Claims"
permalink: /concepts/jwt-claim/
---



The following 11 JSON Web Token Claim values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official JSON Web Token Claim registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt/jwt.xhtml#claims) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

JSON Web Token Claim | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`aud`](/concepts/jwt-claim/aud "The &#34;aud&#34; (audience) claim identifies the recipients that the JWT is intended for. Each principal intended to process the JWT MUST identify itself with a value in the audience claim.") | [**RFC 7519**: JSON Web Token (JWT)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.")
[`cnf`](/concepts/jwt-claim/cnf "The &#34;cnf&#34; claim is used in the JWT to contain members used to identify the proof-of-possession key.") | [**RFC 7800**: Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7800 "This specification describes how to declare in a JSON Web Token (JWT) that the presenter of the JWT possesses a particular proof-of-possession key and how the recipient can cryptographically confirm proof of possession of the key by the presenter. Being able to prove possession of a key is also sometimes described as the presenter being a holder-of-key.")
[`events`](/concepts/jwt-claim/events "This claim contains a set of event statements that each provide information describing a single logical event that has occurred about a security subject (e.g., a state change to the subject). Multiple event identifiers with the same value MUST NOT be used. The &#34;events&#34; claim MUST NOT be used to express multiple independent logical events.") | [**RFC 8417**: Security Event Token (SET)](/specs/IETF/RFC/8417 "This specification defines the Security Event Token (SET) data structure. A SET describes statements of fact from the perspective of an issuer about a subject. These statements of fact represent an event that occurred directly to or about a security subject, for example, a statement about the issuance or revocation of a token on behalf of a subject. This specification is intended to enable representing security- and identity-related events. A SET is a JSON Web Token (JWT), which can be optionally signed and/or encrypted. SETs can be distributed via protocols such as HTTP.")
[`exp`](/concepts/jwt-claim/exp "The &#34;exp&#34; (expiration time) claim identifies the expiration time on or after which the JWT MUST NOT be accepted for processing. The processing of the &#34;exp&#34; claim requires that the current date/time MUST be before the expiration date/time listed in the &#34;exp&#34; claim.") | [**RFC 7519**: JSON Web Token (JWT)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.")
[`iat`](/concepts/jwt-claim/iat "The &#34;iat&#34; (issued at) claim identifies the time at which the JWT was issued. This claim can be used to determine the age of the JWT.") | [**RFC 7519**: JSON Web Token (JWT)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.")
[`iss`](/concepts/jwt-claim/iss "The &#34;iss&#34; (issuer) claim identifies the principal that issued the JWT. The processing of this claim is generally application specific.") | [**RFC 7519**: JSON Web Token (JWT)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.")
[`jti`](/concepts/jwt-claim/jti "The &#34;jti&#34; (JWT ID) claim provides a unique identifier for the JWT. The identifier value MUST be assigned in a manner that ensures that there is a negligible probability that the same value will be accidentally assigned to a different data object; if the application uses multiple issuers, collisions MUST be prevented among values produced by different issuers as well.") | [**RFC 7519**: JSON Web Token (JWT)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.")
[`nbf`](/concepts/jwt-claim/nbf "The &#34;nbf&#34; (not before) claim identifies the time before which the JWT MUST NOT be accepted for processing. The processing of the &#34;nbf&#34; claim requires that the current date/time MUST be after or equal to the not-before date/time listed in the &#34;nbf&#34; claim.") | [**RFC 7519**: JSON Web Token (JWT)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.")
[`sub`](/concepts/jwt-claim/sub "The &#34;sub&#34; (subject) claim identifies the principal that is the subject of the JWT. The claims in a JWT are normally statements about the subject. The subject value MUST either be scoped to be locally unique in the context of the issuer or be globally unique.") | [**RFC 7519**: JSON Web Token (JWT)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.")
[`toe`](/concepts/jwt-claim/toe "A value that represents the date and time at which the event occurred. This value is a NumericDate. By omitting this claim, the issuer indicates that they are not sharing an event time with the recipient. (Note that in some use cases, the represented time might be approximate; statements about the accuracy of this field MAY be made by profiling specifications.)") | [**RFC 8417**: Security Event Token (SET)](/specs/IETF/RFC/8417 "This specification defines the Security Event Token (SET) data structure. A SET describes statements of fact from the perspective of an issuer about a subject. These statements of fact represent an event that occurred directly to or about a security subject, for example, a statement about the issuance or revocation of a token on behalf of a subject. This specification is intended to enable representing security- and identity-related events. A SET is a JSON Web Token (JWT), which can be optionally signed and/or encrypted. SETs can be distributed via protocols such as HTTP.")
[`txn`](/concepts/jwt-claim/txn "An OPTIONAL string value that represents a unique transaction identifier. In cases in which multiple related JWTs are issued, the transaction identifier claim can be used to correlate these related JWTs. Note that this claim can be used in JWTs that are SETs and also in JWTs using non-SET profiles.") | [**RFC 8417**: Security Event Token (SET)](/specs/IETF/RFC/8417 "This specification defines the Security Event Token (SET) data structure. A SET describes statements of fact from the perspective of an issuer about a subject. These statements of fact represent an event that occurred directly to or about a security subject, for example, a statement about the issuance or revocation of a token on behalf of a subject. This specification is intended to enable representing security- and identity-related events. A SET is a JSON Web Token (JWT), which can be optionally signed and/or encrypted. SETs can be distributed via protocols such as HTTP.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../jwt-claim.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
