---
layout:    page
title:     "Link Relations"
permalink: /concepts/link-relations
---



The following 85 Link Relation definitions (82 distinct values) were found in [139 specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official Link Relation registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/link-relations.xhtml) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

Link Relation | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`about`](/concepts/link-relation/about) | [**RFC 6903**: Additional Link Relation Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/6903 "This specification defines a number of additional link relation types that can used for a range of purposes in a variety of applications types.")
[`alternate`](/concepts/link-relation/alternate "2 definitions") | [**RFC 4287**: Atom Syndication Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/4287 "Atom is an XML-based document format that describes lists of related information known as &#34;feeds&#34;. Feeds are composed of a number of items, known as &#34;entries&#34;, each with an extensible set of attached metadata. For example, each entry has a title.")<br/>[**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`appendix`](/concepts/link-relation/appendix) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`bcc`](/concepts/link-relation/bcc) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`bfrom`](/concepts/link-relation/bfrom) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`bookmark`](/concepts/link-relation/bookmark) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`bto`](/concepts/link-relation/bto) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`canonical`](/concepts/link-relation/canonical) | [**RFC 6596**: The Canonical Link Relation](/specs/IETF/RFC/6596 "RFC 5988 specifies a way to define relationships between links on the web. This document describes a new type of such a relationship, &#34;canonical&#34;, to designate an Internationalized Resource Identifier (IRI) as preferred over resources with duplicative content.")
[`cc`](/concepts/link-relation/cc) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`chapter`](/concepts/link-relation/chapter) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`collection`](/concepts/link-relation/collection) | [**RFC 6573**: The Item and Collection Link Relations](/specs/IETF/RFC/6573 "RFC 5988 standardized a means of indicating the relationships between resources on the Web. This specification defines a pair of reciprocal link relation types that may be used to express the relationship between a collection and its members.")
[`contents`](/concepts/link-relation/contents) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`copyright`](/concepts/link-relation/copyright) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`create`](/concepts/link-relation/create) | [**Internet Draft zyp-json-schema**: A JSON Media Type for Describing the Structure and Meaning of JSON Documents](/specs/IETF/I-D/zyp-json-schema "JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) Schema defines the media type &#34;application/schema+json&#34;, a JSON based format for defining the structure of JSON data. JSON Schema provides a contract for what JSON data is required for a given application and how to interact with it. JSON Schema is intended to define validation, documentation, hyperlink navigation, and interaction control of JSON data.")
[`create-form`](/concepts/link-relation/create-form) | [**RFC 6861**: The "create-form" and "edit-form" Link Relations](/specs/IETF/RFC/6861 "RFC 5988 standardized a means of indicating the relationships between resources on the Web. This specification defines link relation types that may be used to express the relationships between a resource and an input form for constructing data submissions.")
[`current`](/concepts/link-relation/current) | [**RFC 5005**: Feed Paging and Archiving](/specs/IETF/RFC/5005 "Syndicated Web feeds (using formats such as Atom) are often split into multiple documents to save bandwidth, allow &#34;sliding window&#34; access, or for other purposes. This specification formalizes two types of feeds that can span one or more feed documents; &#34;paged&#34; feeds and &#34;archived&#34; feeds. Additionally, it defines &#34;complete&#34; feeds to cover the case when a single feed document explicitly represents all of the feed's entries.")
[`derivedfrom`](/concepts/link-relation/derivedfrom) | [**Internet Draft hoffman-xml2rfc**: The 'XML2RFC' version 3 Vocabulary](/specs/IETF/I-D/hoffman-xml2rfc " This document defines the &#34;XML2RFC&#34; version 3 vocabulary; an XML-based language used for writing RFCs and Internet-Drafts. It is heavily derived from the version 2 vocabulary that is also under discussion. This document obsoletes the v2 grammar described in RFC 2629 and its expected followup, draft-reschke-xml2rfc.")
[`describedby`](/concepts/link-relation/describedby "2 definitions") | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/ldp**: Linked Data Platform 1.0 (LDP)](/specs/W3C/TR/ldp "Linked Data Platform (LDP) defines a set of rules for HTTP operations on web resources, some based on RDF, to provide an architecture for read-write Linked Data on the web.")<br/>[**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/powder-dr**: Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER): Description Resources](/specs/W3C/TR/powder-dr "The purpose of the Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER) is to provide a means for individuals or organizations to describe a group of resources through the publication of machine-readable metadata, as motivated by the POWDER Use Cases. This document details the creation and lifecycle of Description Resources (DRs), which encapsulate such metadata. These are typically represented in a highly constrained XML dialect that is relatively human-readable. The meaning of such DRs are underpinned by formal semantics, accessible by performing a GRDDL Transform.")
[`describes`](/concepts/link-relation/describes) | [**RFC 6892**: The 'describes' Link Relation Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/6892 "This specification defines the 'describes' link relation type that allows resource representations to indicate that they are describing another resource. In contexts where applications want to associate described resources and description resources, and want to build services based on these associations, the 'describes' link relation type provides the opposite direction of the 'describedby' link relation type, which already is a registered link relation type.")
[`disclosure`](/concepts/link-relation/disclosure) | [**RFC 6579**: The 'disclosure' Link Relation Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/6579 "This document specifies the 'disclosure' link relation type. It designates a list of IPR disclosures made with respect to the material for which such a relation type is specified.")
[`dns-prefetch`](/concepts/link-relation/dns-prefetch) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/resource-hints**: Resource Hints](/specs/W3C/TR/resource-hints "This specification defines the dns-prefetch, preconnect, prefetch, and prerender relationships of the HTML Link Element (<link>). These primitives enable the developer, and the server generating or delivering the resources, to assist the user agent in the decision process of which origins it should connect to, and which resources it should fetch and preprocess to improve page performance.")
[`down`](/concepts/link-relation/down) | [**Internet Draft divilly-atom-hierarchy**: Hierarchy Relations for Atom](/specs/IETF/I-D/divilly-atom-hierarchy "Many applications, besides blogs, provide their data in the form of syndicated Web feeds using formats such as Atom. Some such applications organize Atom Entries in a hierarchical fashion similar to a file system. This specification describes a means of communicating about Atom Entries that are hierarchically related to each other since resource identifiers are opaque to clients and cannot be directly manipulated for the purposes of representation exchange, i.e., navigation. This specification proposes new link relations for hierarchically related Atom resources.")
[`edit`](/concepts/link-relation/edit) | [**RFC 5023**: Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5023 "The Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub) is an application-level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources. The protocol is based on HTTP transfer of Atom-formatted representations. The Atom format is documented in the Atom Syndication Format.")
[`edit-form`](/concepts/link-relation/edit-form) | [**RFC 6861**: The "create-form" and "edit-form" Link Relations](/specs/IETF/RFC/6861 "RFC 5988 standardized a means of indicating the relationships between resources on the Web. This specification defines link relation types that may be used to express the relationships between a resource and an input form for constructing data submissions.")
[`edit-media`](/concepts/link-relation/edit-media) | [**RFC 5023**: Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5023 "The Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub) is an application-level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources. The protocol is based on HTTP transfer of Atom-formatted representations. The Atom format is documented in the Atom Syndication Format.")
[`enclosure`](/concepts/link-relation/enclosure) | [**RFC 4287**: Atom Syndication Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/4287 "Atom is an XML-based document format that describes lists of related information known as &#34;feeds&#34;. Feeds are composed of a number of items, known as &#34;entries&#34;, each with an extensible set of attached metadata. For example, each entry has a title.")
[`first`](/concepts/link-relation/first) | [**RFC 5005**: Feed Paging and Archiving](/specs/IETF/RFC/5005 "Syndicated Web feeds (using formats such as Atom) are often split into multiple documents to save bandwidth, allow &#34;sliding window&#34; access, or for other purposes. This specification formalizes two types of feeds that can span one or more feed documents; &#34;paged&#34; feeds and &#34;archived&#34; feeds. Additionally, it defines &#34;complete&#34; feeds to cover the case when a single feed document explicitly represents all of the feed's entries.")
[`from`](/concepts/link-relation/from) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`full`](/concepts/link-relation/full) | [**Internet Draft zyp-json-schema**: A JSON Media Type for Describing the Structure and Meaning of JSON Documents](/specs/IETF/I-D/zyp-json-schema "JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) Schema defines the media type &#34;application/schema+json&#34;, a JSON based format for defining the structure of JSON data. JSON Schema provides a contract for what JSON data is required for a given application and how to interact with it. JSON Schema is intended to define validation, documentation, hyperlink navigation, and interaction control of JSON data.")
[`generator`](/concepts/link-relation/generator) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`glossary`](/concepts/link-relation/glossary) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`help`](/concepts/link-relation/help) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`home`](/concepts/link-relation/home) | [**Internet Draft wilde-home-xml**: Home Documents for HTTP Services: XML Syntax](/specs/IETF/I-D/wilde-home-xml "The specification for HTTP API Home Documents provides a JSON syntax only. This specification provides an XML syntax for the same data model, so that the concept of Home Documents can be consistently exposed in both JSON- and XML-based HTTP APIs. It also defines the link relation type &#34;home&#34; so that applications can identify links to home documents.")
[`hosts`](/concepts/link-relation/hosts) | [**RFC 6690**: Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/6690 "This specification defines Web Linking using a link format for use by constrained web servers to describe hosted resources, their attributes, and other relationships between links. Based on the HTTP Link Header field defined in RFC 5988, the Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format is carried as a payload and is assigned an Internet media type. &#34;RESTful&#34; refers to the Representational State Transfer (REST) architecture. A well-known URI is defined as a default entry point for requesting the links hosted by a server.")
[`index`](/concepts/link-relation/index) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`instances`](/concepts/link-relation/instances) | [**Internet Draft zyp-json-schema**: A JSON Media Type for Describing the Structure and Meaning of JSON Documents](/specs/IETF/I-D/zyp-json-schema "JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) Schema defines the media type &#34;application/schema+json&#34;, a JSON based format for defining the structure of JSON data. JSON Schema provides a contract for what JSON data is required for a given application and how to interact with it. JSON Schema is intended to define validation, documentation, hyperlink navigation, and interaction control of JSON data.")
[`item`](/concepts/link-relation/item) | [**RFC 6573**: The Item and Collection Link Relations](/specs/IETF/RFC/6573 "RFC 5988 standardized a means of indicating the relationships between resources on the Web. This specification defines a pair of reciprocal link relation types that may be used to express the relationship between a collection and its members.")
[`last`](/concepts/link-relation/last) | [**RFC 5005**: Feed Paging and Archiving](/specs/IETF/RFC/5005 "Syndicated Web feeds (using formats such as Atom) are often split into multiple documents to save bandwidth, allow &#34;sliding window&#34; access, or for other purposes. This specification formalizes two types of feeds that can span one or more feed documents; &#34;paged&#34; feeds and &#34;archived&#34; feeds. Additionally, it defines &#34;complete&#34; feeds to cover the case when a single feed document explicitly represents all of the feed's entries.")
[`latest-version`](/concepts/link-relation/latest-version) | [**RFC 5829**: Link Relation Types for Simple Version Navigation between Web Resources](/specs/IETF/RFC/5829 "This specification defines a set of link relation types that may be used on Web resources for navigation between a resource and other resources related to version control, such as past versions and working copies.")
[`license`](/concepts/link-relation/license) | [**RFC 4946**: Atom License Extension](/specs/IETF/RFC/4946 "This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community. It does not specify an Internet standard of any kind. Discussion and suggestions for improvement are requested. Distribution of this memo is unlimited.")
[`link`](/concepts/link-relation/link) | [**RFC 5988**: Web Linking](/specs/IETF/RFC/5988 "This document specifies relation types for Web links, and defines a registry for them. It also defines the use of such links in HTTP headers with the Link header field.")
[`location`](/concepts/link-relation/location) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`manifest`](/concepts/link-relation/manifest) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest**: Manifest for Web Application](/specs/W3C/TR/appmanifest "This specification defines a JSON-based manifest that provides developers with a centralized place to put metadata associated with a web application. This includes, but is not limited to, the web application's name, links to icons, as well as the preferred URL to open when a user launches the web application. The manifest also allows developers to declare a default orientation for their web application, as well as providing the ability to set the display mode for the application (e.g., in fullscreen). Additionally, the manifest allows a developer to &#34;scope&#34; a web application to a URL. This restricts the URLs to which the application can be navigated and provides a means to &#34;deep link&#34; into a web application from other applications. Using this metadata, user agents can provide developers with means to create user experiences that are more comparable to that of a native application. In addition, this specification defines the manifest link type, which provides a declarative means for a document to be associated with a manifest.")
[`memento`](/concepts/link-relation/memento) | [**RFC 7089**: HTTP framework for time-based access to resource states - Memento](/specs/IETF/RFC/7089 "The HTTP-based Memento framework bridges the present and past Web. It facilitates obtaining representations of prior states of a given resource by introducing datetime negotiation and TimeMaps. Datetime negotiation is a variation on content negotiation that leverages the given resource's URI and a user agent's preferred datetime. TimeMaps are lists that enumerate URIs of resources that encapsulate prior states of the given resource. The framework also facilitates recognizing a resource that encapsulates a frozen prior state of another resource.")
[`mentionedby`](/concepts/link-relation/mentionedby) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`micropub`](/concepts/link-relation/micropub) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/micropub**: Micropub](/specs/W3C/TR/micropub "Micropub is an open API standard that is used to create posts on one's own domain using third-party clients. Web apps and native apps (e.g. iPhone, Android) can use Micropub to post short notes, photos, events or other posts to your own site.")
[`next`](/concepts/link-relation/next "2 definitions") | [**RFC 5005**: Feed Paging and Archiving](/specs/IETF/RFC/5005 "Syndicated Web feeds (using formats such as Atom) are often split into multiple documents to save bandwidth, allow &#34;sliding window&#34; access, or for other purposes. This specification formalizes two types of feeds that can span one or more feed documents; &#34;paged&#34; feeds and &#34;archived&#34; feeds. Additionally, it defines &#34;complete&#34; feeds to cover the case when a single feed document explicitly represents all of the feed's entries.")<br/>[**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`next-archive`](/concepts/link-relation/next-archive) | [**RFC 5005**: Feed Paging and Archiving](/specs/IETF/RFC/5005 "Syndicated Web feeds (using formats such as Atom) are often split into multiple documents to save bandwidth, allow &#34;sliding window&#34; access, or for other purposes. This specification formalizes two types of feeds that can span one or more feed documents; &#34;paged&#34; feeds and &#34;archived&#34; feeds. Additionally, it defines &#34;complete&#34; feeds to cover the case when a single feed document explicitly represents all of the feed's entries.")
[`original`](/concepts/link-relation/original) | [**RFC 7089**: HTTP framework for time-based access to resource states - Memento](/specs/IETF/RFC/7089 "The HTTP-based Memento framework bridges the present and past Web. It facilitates obtaining representations of prior states of a given resource by introducing datetime negotiation and TimeMaps. Datetime negotiation is a variation on content negotiation that leverages the given resource's URI and a user agent's preferred datetime. TimeMaps are lists that enumerate URIs of resources that encapsulate prior states of the given resource. The framework also facilitates recognizing a resource that encapsulates a frozen prior state of another resource.")
[`preconnect`](/concepts/link-relation/preconnect) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/resource-hints**: Resource Hints](/specs/W3C/TR/resource-hints "This specification defines the dns-prefetch, preconnect, prefetch, and prerender relationships of the HTML Link Element (<link>). These primitives enable the developer, and the server generating or delivering the resources, to assist the user agent in the decision process of which origins it should connect to, and which resources it should fetch and preprocess to improve page performance.")
[`predecessor-version`](/concepts/link-relation/predecessor-version) | [**RFC 5829**: Link Relation Types for Simple Version Navigation between Web Resources](/specs/IETF/RFC/5829 "This specification defines a set of link relation types that may be used on Web resources for navigation between a resource and other resources related to version control, such as past versions and working copies.")
[`prefetch`](/concepts/link-relation/prefetch) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/resource-hints**: Resource Hints](/specs/W3C/TR/resource-hints "This specification defines the dns-prefetch, preconnect, prefetch, and prerender relationships of the HTML Link Element (<link>). These primitives enable the developer, and the server generating or delivering the resources, to assist the user agent in the decision process of which origins it should connect to, and which resources it should fetch and preprocess to improve page performance.")
[`preload`](/concepts/link-relation/preload) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/preload**: Preload](/specs/W3C/TR/preload "This specification defines the preload keyword that may be used with link elements. This keyword provides a declarative fetch primitive that initiates an early fetch and separates fetching from resource execution.")
[`prerender`](/concepts/link-relation/prerender) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/resource-hints**: Resource Hints](/specs/W3C/TR/resource-hints "This specification defines the dns-prefetch, preconnect, prefetch, and prerender relationships of the HTML Link Element (<link>). These primitives enable the developer, and the server generating or delivering the resources, to assist the user agent in the decision process of which origins it should connect to, and which resources it should fetch and preprocess to improve page performance.")
[`prev`](/concepts/link-relation/prev) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`prev-archive`](/concepts/link-relation/prev-archive) | [**RFC 5005**: Feed Paging and Archiving](/specs/IETF/RFC/5005 "Syndicated Web feeds (using formats such as Atom) are often split into multiple documents to save bandwidth, allow &#34;sliding window&#34; access, or for other purposes. This specification formalizes two types of feeds that can span one or more feed documents; &#34;paged&#34; feeds and &#34;archived&#34; feeds. Additionally, it defines &#34;complete&#34; feeds to cover the case when a single feed document explicitly represents all of the feed's entries.")
[`preview`](/concepts/link-relation/preview) | [**RFC 6903**: Additional Link Relation Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/6903 "This specification defines a number of additional link relation types that can used for a range of purposes in a variety of applications types.")
[`previous`](/concepts/link-relation/previous) | [**RFC 5005**: Feed Paging and Archiving](/specs/IETF/RFC/5005 "Syndicated Web feeds (using formats such as Atom) are often split into multiple documents to save bandwidth, allow &#34;sliding window&#34; access, or for other purposes. This specification formalizes two types of feeds that can span one or more feed documents; &#34;paged&#34; feeds and &#34;archived&#34; feeds. Additionally, it defines &#34;complete&#34; feeds to cover the case when a single feed document explicitly represents all of the feed's entries.")
[`privacy-policy`](/concepts/link-relation/privacy-policy) | [**RFC 6903**: Additional Link Relation Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/6903 "This specification defines a number of additional link relation types that can used for a range of purposes in a variety of applications types.")
[`provider`](/concepts/link-relation/provider) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`related`](/concepts/link-relation/related) | [**RFC 4287**: Atom Syndication Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/4287 "Atom is an XML-based document format that describes lists of related information known as &#34;feeds&#34;. Feeds are composed of a number of items, known as &#34;entries&#34;, each with an extensible set of attached metadata. For example, each entry has a title.")
[`root`](/concepts/link-relation/root) | [**Internet Draft zyp-json-schema**: A JSON Media Type for Describing the Structure and Meaning of JSON Documents](/specs/IETF/I-D/zyp-json-schema "JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) Schema defines the media type &#34;application/schema+json&#34;, a JSON based format for defining the structure of JSON data. JSON Schema provides a contract for what JSON data is required for a given application and how to interact with it. JSON Schema is intended to define validation, documentation, hyperlink navigation, and interaction control of JSON data.")
[`section`](/concepts/link-relation/section) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`self`](/concepts/link-relation/self) | [**RFC 4287**: Atom Syndication Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/4287 "Atom is an XML-based document format that describes lists of related information known as &#34;feeds&#34;. Feeds are composed of a number of items, known as &#34;entries&#34;, each with an extensible set of attached metadata. For example, each entry has a title.")
[`service-desc`](/concepts/link-relation/service-desc) | [**Internet Draft wilde-link-desc**: Link Relation Types for Web Services](/specs/IETF/I-D/wilde-link-desc "Many resources provided on the Web are part of a sets of resources that are provided in a context that is defined and managed by one particular service provider. Often, these sets of resources are referred to as &#34;Web Services&#34; or &#34;Web APIs&#34;. This specification defines two link relations that allow to represent relationships from those resources to ones that provide documentation or descriptions of the Web services. The difference between these concepts is that documentation is primarily intended for human consumers, whereas descriptions are primarily intended for automated consumers.")
[`service-doc`](/concepts/link-relation/service-doc) | [**Internet Draft wilde-link-desc**: Link Relation Types for Web Services](/specs/IETF/I-D/wilde-link-desc "Many resources provided on the Web are part of a sets of resources that are provided in a context that is defined and managed by one particular service provider. Often, these sets of resources are referred to as &#34;Web Services&#34; or &#34;Web APIs&#34;. This specification defines two link relations that allow to represent relationships from those resources to ones that provide documentation or descriptions of the Web services. The difference between these concepts is that documentation is primarily intended for human consumers, whereas descriptions are primarily intended for automated consumers.")
[`source`](/concepts/link-relation/source) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`start`](/concepts/link-relation/start) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`stylesheet`](/concepts/link-relation/stylesheet) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`subsection`](/concepts/link-relation/subsection) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html4**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html4 "This specification defines the HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the publishing language of the World Wide Web. This specification defines HTML 4.01, which is a subversion of HTML 4. In addition to the text, multimedia, and hyperlink features of the previous versions of HTML (HTML 3.2 and HTML 2.0), HTML 4 supports more multimedia options, scripting languages, style sheets, better printing facilities, and documents that are more accessible to users with disabilities. HTML 4 also takes great strides towards the internationalization of documents, with the goal of making the Web truly World Wide.")
[`successor-version`](/concepts/link-relation/successor-version) | [**RFC 5829**: Link Relation Types for Simple Version Navigation between Web Resources](/specs/IETF/RFC/5829 "This specification defines a set of link relation types that may be used on Web resources for navigation between a resource and other resources related to version control, such as past versions and working copies.")
[`terms-of-service`](/concepts/link-relation/terms-of-service) | [**RFC 6903**: Additional Link Relation Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/6903 "This specification defines a number of additional link relation types that can used for a range of purposes in a variety of applications types.")
[`timegate`](/concepts/link-relation/timegate) | [**RFC 7089**: HTTP framework for time-based access to resource states - Memento](/specs/IETF/RFC/7089 "The HTTP-based Memento framework bridges the present and past Web. It facilitates obtaining representations of prior states of a given resource by introducing datetime negotiation and TimeMaps. Datetime negotiation is a variation on content negotiation that leverages the given resource's URI and a user agent's preferred datetime. TimeMaps are lists that enumerate URIs of resources that encapsulate prior states of the given resource. The framework also facilitates recognizing a resource that encapsulates a frozen prior state of another resource.")
[`timemap`](/concepts/link-relation/timemap) | [**RFC 7089**: HTTP framework for time-based access to resource states - Memento](/specs/IETF/RFC/7089 "The HTTP-based Memento framework bridges the present and past Web. It facilitates obtaining representations of prior states of a given resource by introducing datetime negotiation and TimeMaps. Datetime negotiation is a variation on content negotiation that leverages the given resource's URI and a user agent's preferred datetime. TimeMaps are lists that enumerate URIs of resources that encapsulate prior states of the given resource. The framework also facilitates recognizing a resource that encapsulates a frozen prior state of another resource.")
[`to`](/concepts/link-relation/to) | [**Internet Draft snell-more-link-relations**: Additional Link Relations and the urn:social Namespace](/specs/IETF/I-D/snell-more-link-relations "This specification defines a number of additional Link Relation Types that can used for a variety of purposes.")
[`type`](/concepts/link-relation/type) | [**RFC 6903**: Additional Link Relation Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/6903 "This specification defines a number of additional link relation types that can used for a range of purposes in a variety of applications types.")
[`up`](/concepts/link-relation/up) | [**Internet Draft divilly-atom-hierarchy**: Hierarchy Relations for Atom](/specs/IETF/I-D/divilly-atom-hierarchy "Many applications, besides blogs, provide their data in the form of syndicated Web feeds using formats such as Atom. Some such applications organize Atom Entries in a hierarchical fashion similar to a file system. This specification describes a means of communicating about Atom Entries that are hierarchically related to each other since resource identifiers are opaque to clients and cannot be directly manipulated for the purposes of representation exchange, i.e., navigation. This specification proposes new link relations for hierarchically related Atom resources.")
[`version-history`](/concepts/link-relation/version-history) | [**RFC 5829**: Link Relation Types for Simple Version Navigation between Web Resources](/specs/IETF/RFC/5829 "This specification defines a set of link relation types that may be used on Web resources for navigation between a resource and other resources related to version control, such as past versions and working copies.")
[`via`](/concepts/link-relation/via) | [**RFC 4287**: Atom Syndication Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/4287 "Atom is an XML-based document format that describes lists of related information known as &#34;feeds&#34;. Feeds are composed of a number of items, known as &#34;entries&#34;, each with an extensible set of attached metadata. For example, each entry has a title.")
[`webmention`](/concepts/link-relation/webmention) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/webmention**: Webmention](/specs/W3C/TR/webmention "Webmention is a simple way to notify any URL when you link to it on your site. From the receiver's perspective, it's a way to request notifications when other sites link to it.")
[`working-copy`](/concepts/link-relation/working-copy) | [**RFC 5829**: Link Relation Types for Simple Version Navigation between Web Resources](/specs/IETF/RFC/5829 "This specification defines a set of link relation types that may be used on Web resources for navigation between a resource and other resources related to version control, such as past versions and working copies.")
[`working-copy-of`](/concepts/link-relation/working-copy-of) | [**RFC 5829**: Link Relation Types for Simple Version Navigation between Web Resources](/specs/IETF/RFC/5829 "This specification defines a set of link relation types that may be used on Web resources for navigation between a resource and other resources related to version control, such as past versions and working copies.")
