---
layout:    page
title:     "Media Types"
permalink: /concepts/media-type/
---



The following 96 Media Type values (94 distinct values) were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official Media Type registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

Media Type | Specification
-------: | :-------
[` application/xhtml+xml`](/concepts/media-type/ application/xhtml+xml) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html "This specification defines the 5th major version, first minor revision of the core language of the World Wide Web: the Hypertext Markup Language (HTML). In this version, new features continue to be introduced to help Web application authors, new elements continue to be introduced based on research into prevailing authoring practices, and special attention continues to be given to defining clear conformance criteria for user agents in an effort to improve interoperability.")
[` multipart/x-mixed-replace`](/concepts/media-type/ multipart/x-mixed-replace) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html "This specification defines the 5th major version, first minor revision of the core language of the World Wide Web: the Hypertext Markup Language (HTML). In this version, new features continue to be introduced to help Web application authors, new elements continue to be introduced based on research into prevailing authoring practices, and special attention continues to be given to defining clear conformance criteria for user agents in an effort to improve interoperability.")
[`application/activity+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/activity+json) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core**: Activity Streams 2.0](/specs/W3C/TR/activitystreams-core "This specification details a model for representing potential and completed activities using the JSON format.")
[`application/alps+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/alps+json) | [**Internet Draft amundsen-richardson-foster-alps**: Application-Level Profile Semantics (ALPS)](/specs/IETF/I-D/amundsen-richardson-foster-alps "This document describes ALPS, a data format for defining simple descriptions of application-level semantics, similar in complexity to HTML microformats. An ALPS document can be used as a profile to explain the application semantics of a document with an application-agnostic media type (such as HTML, HAL, Collection+JSON, Siren, etc.). This increases the reusability of profile documents across media types.")
[`application/alps+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/alps+xml) | [**Internet Draft amundsen-richardson-foster-alps**: Application-Level Profile Semantics (ALPS)](/specs/IETF/I-D/amundsen-richardson-foster-alps "This document describes ALPS, a data format for defining simple descriptions of application-level semantics, similar in complexity to HTML microformats. An ALPS document can be used as a profile to explain the application semantics of a document with an application-agnostic media type (such as HTML, HAL, Collection+JSON, Siren, etc.). This increases the reusability of profile documents across media types.")
[`application/atom+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/atom+xml) | [**RFC 4287**: Atom Syndication Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/4287 "Atom is an XML-based document format that describes lists of related information known as &#34;feeds&#34;. Feeds are composed of a number of items, known as &#34;entries&#34;, each with an extensible set of attached metadata. For example, each entry has a title.")
[`application/atomcat+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/atomcat+xml) | [**RFC 5023**: Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5023 "The Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub) is an application-level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources. The protocol is based on HTTP transfer of Atom-formatted representations. The Atom format is documented in the Atom Syndication Format.")
[`application/atomdeleted+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/atomdeleted+xml) | [**RFC 6271**: The Atom "deleted-entry" Element](/specs/IETF/RFC/6271 "This specification adds mechanisms to the Atom Syndication Format that publishers of Atom Feed and Entry documents can use to explicitly identify Atom entries that have been removed.")
[`application/atomsvc+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/atomsvc+xml) | [**RFC 5023**: Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5023 "The Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub) is an application-level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources. The protocol is based on HTTP transfer of Atom-formatted representations. The Atom format is documented in the Atom Syndication Format.")
[`application/cbor`](/concepts/media-type/application/cbor) | [**RFC 7049**: Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7049 "The Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) is a data format whose design goals include the possibility of extremely small code size, fairly small message size, and extensibility without the need for version negotiation. These design goals make it different from earlier binary serializations such as ASN.1 and MessagePack.")
[`application/coap-group+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/coap-group+json) | [**RFC 7390**: Group Communication for the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7390 "The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) is a specialized web transfer protocol for constrained devices and constrained networks. It is anticipated that constrained devices will often naturally operate in groups (e.g., in a building automation scenario, all lights in a given room may need to be switched on/off as a group). This specification defines how CoAP should be used in a group communication context.  An approach for using CoAP on top of IP multicast is detailed based on existing CoAP functionality as well as new features introduced in this specification.  Also, various use cases and corresponding protocol flows are provided to illustrate important concepts.  Finally, guidance is provided for deployment in various network topologies.")
[`application/coap-payload`](/concepts/media-type/application/coap-payload) | [**Internet Draft ietf-core-http-mapping**: Guidelines for HTTP-to-CoAP Mapping Implementations](/specs/IETF/I-D/ietf-core-http-mapping "This document provides reference information for implementing a cross-protocol network proxy that performs translation from the HTTP protocol to the CoAP protocol. This will enable a HTTP client to access resources on a CoAP server through the proxy. This document describes how a HTTP request is mapped to a CoAP request, and then how a CoAP response is mapped back to a HTTP response. This includes guidelines for URI mapping, media type mapping and additional proxy implementation issues. This document covers the Reverse, Forward and Interception cross-protocol proxy cases.")
[`application/cose`](/concepts/media-type/application/cose) | [**RFC 8152**: CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)](/specs/IETF/RFC/8152 "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) is a data format designed for small code size and small message size. There is a need for the ability to have basic security services defined for this data format. This document defines the CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) protocol. This specification describes how to create and process signatures, message authentication codes, and encryption using CBOR for serialization. This specification additionally describes how to represent cryptographic keys using CBOR.")
[`application/cose-key`](/concepts/media-type/application/cose-key) | [**RFC 8152**: CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)](/specs/IETF/RFC/8152 "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) is a data format designed for small code size and small message size. There is a need for the ability to have basic security services defined for this data format. This document defines the CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) protocol. This specification describes how to create and process signatures, message authentication codes, and encryption using CBOR for serialization. This specification additionally describes how to represent cryptographic keys using CBOR.")
[`application/cose-key-set`](/concepts/media-type/application/cose-key-set) | [**RFC 8152**: CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)](/specs/IETF/RFC/8152 "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) is a data format designed for small code size and small message size. There is a need for the ability to have basic security services defined for this data format. This document defines the CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) protocol. This specification describes how to create and process signatures, message authentication codes, and encryption using CBOR for serialization. This specification additionally describes how to represent cryptographic keys using CBOR.")
[`application/csrattrs`](/concepts/media-type/application/csrattrs) | [**RFC 7030**: Enrollment over Secure Transport](/specs/IETF/RFC/7030 "This document profiles certificate enrollment for clients using Certificate Management over CMS (CMC) messages over a secure transport. This profile, called Enrollment over Secure Transport (EST), describes a simple, yet functional, certificate management protocol targeting Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) clients that need to acquire client certificates and associated Certification Authority (CA) certificates. It also supports client-generated public/private key pairs as well as key pairs generated by the CA.")
[`application/dash+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/dash+xml) | [**ISO/IEC 23009**: Information technology — Dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP (DASH) — Part 1: Media presentation description and segment formats](/specs/ISO/IEC/23009 "ISO/IEC 23009-1:2014 primarily specifies formats for the Media Presentation Description and Segments for dynamic adaptive streaming delivery of MPEG media over HTTP. It is applicable to streaming services over the Internet.")
[`application/exi`](/concepts/media-type/application/exi) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/exi**: Efficient XML Interchange (EXI) Format 1.0](/specs/W3C/TR/exi "This document is the specification of the Efficient XML Interchange (EXI) format. EXI is a very compact representation for the Extensible Markup Language (XML) Information Set that is intended to simultaneously optimize performance and the utilization of computational resources. The EXI format uses a hybrid approach drawn from the information and formal language theories, plus practical techniques verified by measurements, for entropy encoding XML information. Using a relatively simple algorithm, which is amenable to fast and compact implementation, and a small set of datatype representations, it reliably produces efficient encodings of XML event streams. The grammar production system and format definition of EXI are presented.")
[`application/font-sfnt`](/concepts/media-type/application/font-sfnt) | [**ISO/IEC 14496**: Information technology — Coding of audio-visual objects — Part 22: Open Font Format](/specs/ISO/IEC/14496 "ISO/IEC 14496-22:2015 specifies the Open Font Format (OFF) specification, the TrueType and Compact Font Format (CFF) outline formats, and the TrueType hinting language. Many references to both TrueType and PostScript exist throughout this document, as Open Font Format fonts combine the two technologies.")
[`application/geo+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/geo+json) | [**RFC 7946**: The GeoJSON Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/7946 "GeoJSON is a geospatial data interchange format based on JavaScript Object Notation (JSON). It defines several types of JSON objects and the manner in which they are combined to represent data about geographic features, their properties, and their spatial extents. GeoJSON uses a geographic coordinate reference system, World Geodetic System 1984, and units of decimal degrees.")
[`application/geo+json-seq`](/concepts/media-type/application/geo+json-seq) | [**RFC 8142**: GeoJSON Text Sequences](/specs/IETF/RFC/8142 "This document describes the GeoJSON text sequence format and &#34;application/geo+json-seq&#34; media type. This format is based on JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Text Sequences and GeoJSON, and makes arbitrarily large geographic datasets incrementally parseable without restricting the form of GeoJSON texts within a sequence.")
[`application/gzip`](/concepts/media-type/application/gzip) | [**RFC 6713**: The 'application/zlib' and 'application/gzip' Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/6713 "This document defines the 'application/gzip' and 'application/zlib' media types for compressed data using the gzip and zlib compression formats.")
[`application/hal+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/hal+json) | [**Internet Draft kelly-json-hal**: JSON Hypertext Application Language](/specs/IETF/I-D/kelly-json-hal "This document proposes a media type for representing resources and their relations with hyperlinks.")
[`application/held+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/held+xml) | [**RFC 5985**: HTTP-Enabled Location Delivery (HELD)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5985 "This document defines a Layer 7 Location Configuration Protocol (L7 LCP) and describes the use of HTTP and HTTP/TLS as transports for the L7 LCP. The L7 LCP is used for retrieving location information from a server within an access network. It includes options for retrieving location information in two forms: by value and by reference. The protocol is an extensible application-layer protocol that is independent of the session layer.")
[`application/home+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/home+json) | [**Internet Draft nottingham-json-home**: Home Documents for HTTP APIs](/specs/IETF/I-D/nottingham-json-home "This document proposes a &#34;home document&#34; format for non-browser HTTP clients.")
[`application/home+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/home+xml) | [**Internet Draft wilde-home-xml**: Home Documents for HTTP Services: XML Syntax](/specs/IETF/I-D/wilde-home-xml "The specification for HTTP API Home Documents provides a JSON syntax only. This specification provides an XML syntax for the same data model, so that the concept of Home Documents can be consistently exposed in both JSON- and XML-based HTTP APIs. It also defines the link relation type &#34;home&#34; so that applications can identify links to home documents.")
[`application/http`](/concepts/media-type/application/http) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`application/jose`](/concepts/media-type/application/jose) | [**RFC 7515**: JSON Web Signature (JWS)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7515 "JSON Web Signature (JWS) represents content secured with digital signatures or Message Authentication Codes (MACs) using JSON-based data structures. Cryptographic algorithms and identifiers for use with this specification are described in the separate JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) specification and an IANA registry defined by that specification. Related encryption capabilities are described in the separate JSON Web Encryption (JWE) specification.")
[`application/jose+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/jose+json) | [**RFC 7515**: JSON Web Signature (JWS)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7515 "JSON Web Signature (JWS) represents content secured with digital signatures or Message Authentication Codes (MACs) using JSON-based data structures. Cryptographic algorithms and identifiers for use with this specification are described in the separate JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) specification and an IANA registry defined by that specification. Related encryption capabilities are described in the separate JSON Web Encryption (JWE) specification.")
[`application/jrd+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/jrd+json) | [**RFC 7033**: WebFinger](/specs/IETF/RFC/7033 "This specification defines the WebFinger protocol, which can be used to discover information about people or other entities on the Internet using standard HTTP methods. WebFinger discovers information for a URI that might not be usable as a locator otherwise, such as account or email URIs.")
[`application/json`](/concepts/media-type/application/json)<sub title=" There are 2 definitions for this value">2</sub> | [**RFC 7159**: JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7159 "JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a lightweight, text-based, language-independent data interchange format. It was derived from the ECMAScript Programming Language Standard. JSON defines a small set of formatting rules for the portable representation of structured data.")<br/>[**Internet Draft ietf-jsonbis-rfc7159bis**: The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format](/specs/IETF/I-D/ietf-jsonbis-rfc7159bis "JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a lightweight, text-based, language-independent data interchange format. It was derived from the ECMAScript Programming Language Standard. JSON defines a small set of formatting rules for the portable representation of structured data. This document removes inconsistencies with other specifications of JSON, repairs specification errors, and offers experience-based interoperability guidance.")
[`application/json-seq`](/concepts/media-type/application/json-seq) | [**RFC 7464**: JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Text Sequences](/specs/IETF/RFC/7464 "This document describes the JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) text sequence format and associated media type &#34;application/json-seq&#34;. A JSON text sequence consists of any number of JSON texts, all encoded in UTF-8, each prefixed by an ASCII Record Separator (0x1E), and each ending with an ASCII Line Feed character (0x0A).")
[`application/jwk+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/jwk+json) | [**RFC 7517**: JSON Web Key (JWK)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7517 "A JSON Web Key (JWK) is a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) data structure that represents a cryptographic key. This specification also defines a JWK Set JSON data structure that represents a set of JWKs. Cryptographic algorithms and identifiers for use with this specification are described in the separate JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) specification and IANA registries established by that specification.")
[`application/jwk-set+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/jwk-set+json) | [**RFC 7517**: JSON Web Key (JWK)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7517 "A JSON Web Key (JWK) is a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) data structure that represents a cryptographic key. This specification also defines a JWK Set JSON data structure that represents a set of JWKs. Cryptographic algorithms and identifiers for use with this specification are described in the separate JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) specification and IANA registries established by that specification.")
[`application/jwt`](/concepts/media-type/application/jwt) | [**RFC 7519**: JSON Web Token (JWT)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.")
[`application/ld+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/ld+json) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld**: JSON-LD 1.0](/specs/W3C/TR/json-ld "JSON is a useful data serialization and messaging format. This specification defines JSON-LD, a JSON-based format to serialize Linked Data. The syntax is designed to easily integrate into deployed systems that already use JSON, and provides a smooth upgrade path from JSON to JSON-LD. It is primarily intended to be a way to use Linked Data in Web-based programming environments, to build interoperable Web services, and to store Linked Data in JSON-based storage engines.")
[`application/link-format`](/concepts/media-type/application/link-format) | [**RFC 6690**: Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format](/specs/IETF/RFC/6690 "This specification defines Web Linking using a link format for use by constrained web servers to describe hosted resources, their attributes, and other relationships between links. Based on the HTTP Link Header field defined in RFC 5988, the Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format is carried as a payload and is assigned an Internet media type. &#34;RESTful&#34; refers to the Representational State Transfer (REST) architecture. A well-known URI is defined as a default entry point for requesting the links hosted by a server.")
[`application/link-format+cbor`](/concepts/media-type/application/link-format+cbor) | [**Internet Draft ietf-core-links-json**: Representing CoRE Formats in JSON and CBOR](/specs/IETF/I-D/ietf-core-links-json "JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a text-based data format which is popular for Web based data exchange. Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) is a binary data format which has been optimized for data exchange for the Internet of Things (IoT). For many IoT scenarios, CBOR formats will be preferred since it can help decrease transmission payload sizes as well as implementation code sizes compared to other data formats. Web Linking (RFC 5988) provides a way to represent links between Web resources as well as the relations expressed by them and attributes of such a link. In constrained networks, a collection of Web links can be exchanged in the CoRE link format (RFC 6690). Outside of constrained environments, it may be useful to represent these collections of Web links in JSON, and similarly, inside constrained environments, in CBOR. This specification defines a common format for this.")
[`application/link-format+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/link-format+json) | [**Internet Draft ietf-core-links-json**: Representing CoRE Formats in JSON and CBOR](/specs/IETF/I-D/ietf-core-links-json "JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a text-based data format which is popular for Web based data exchange. Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) is a binary data format which has been optimized for data exchange for the Internet of Things (IoT). For many IoT scenarios, CBOR formats will be preferred since it can help decrease transmission payload sizes as well as implementation code sizes compared to other data formats. Web Linking (RFC 5988) provides a way to represent links between Web resources as well as the relations expressed by them and attributes of such a link. In constrained networks, a collection of Web links can be exchanged in the CoRE link format (RFC 6690). Outside of constrained environments, it may be useful to represent these collections of Web links in JSON, and similarly, inside constrained environments, in CBOR. This specification defines a common format for this.")
[`application/linkset`](/concepts/media-type/application/linkset) | [**Internet Draft wilde-linkset**: Linkset: Media Types and a Link Relation Type for Link Sets](/specs/IETF/I-D/wilde-linkset "This specification defines two media types and a link relation type for sets of links. The media types can be used to represents links in a standalone fashion, in one case in the native format used in the HTTP Link header, and in the other case in a JSON-based format. The link relation can be used to reference these kind of standalone link sets, so that a resource can indicate that additional links putting it into context are available someplace else. One typical scenario is when the number of links to put in  an HTTP Link header field becomes too big, and thus these links should be provided by a distinct resource.")
[`application/linkset+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/linkset+json) | [**Internet Draft wilde-linkset**: Linkset: Media Types and a Link Relation Type for Link Sets](/specs/IETF/I-D/wilde-linkset "This specification defines two media types and a link relation type for sets of links. The media types can be used to represents links in a standalone fashion, in one case in the native format used in the HTTP Link header, and in the other case in a JSON-based format. The link relation can be used to reference these kind of standalone link sets, so that a resource can indicate that additional links putting it into context are available someplace else. One typical scenario is when the number of links to put in  an HTTP Link header field becomes too big, and thus these links should be provided by a distinct resource.")
[`application/mads+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/mads+xml) | [**RFC 6207**: The Media Types application/mods+xml, application/mads+xml, application/mets+xml, application/marcxml+xml, and application/sru+xml](/specs/IETF/RFC/6207 "This document specifies media types for the following formats: MODS (Metadata Object Description Schema), MADS (Metadata Authority Description Schema), METS (Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard), MARCXML (MARC21 XML Schema), and the SRU (Search/Retrieve via URL Response Format) protocol response XML schema. These are all XML schemas providing representations of various forms of information including metadata and search results.")
[`application/manifest+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/manifest+json) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest**: Manifest for Web Application](/specs/W3C/TR/appmanifest "This specification defines a JSON-based manifest that provides developers with a centralized place to put metadata associated with a web application. This includes, but is not limited to, the web application's name, links to icons, as well as the preferred URL to open when a user launches the web application. The manifest also allows developers to declare a default orientation for their web application, as well as providing the ability to set the display mode for the application (e.g., in fullscreen). Additionally, the manifest allows a developer to &#34;scope&#34; a web application to a URL. This restricts the URLs to which the application can be navigated and provides a means to &#34;deep link&#34; into a web application from other applications. Using this metadata, user agents can provide developers with means to create user experiences that are more comparable to that of a native application. In addition, this specification defines the manifest link type, which provides a declarative means for a document to be associated with a manifest.")
[`application/marc`](/concepts/media-type/application/marc) | [**RFC 2220**: The Application/MARC Content-type](/specs/IETF/RFC/2220 "This memorandum provides a mechanism for representing objects which are files of Machine-Readable Cataloging records (MARC). The MARC formats are standards for the representation and communication of bibliographic and related information. A MARC record contains metadata for an information resource following MARC format specifications.")
[`application/marcxml+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/marcxml+xml) | [**RFC 6207**: The Media Types application/mods+xml, application/mads+xml, application/mets+xml, application/marcxml+xml, and application/sru+xml](/specs/IETF/RFC/6207 "This document specifies media types for the following formats: MODS (Metadata Object Description Schema), MADS (Metadata Authority Description Schema), METS (Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard), MARCXML (MARC21 XML Schema), and the SRU (Search/Retrieve via URL Response Format) protocol response XML schema. These are all XML schemas providing representations of various forms of information including metadata and search results.")
[`application/mets+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/mets+xml) | [**RFC 6207**: The Media Types application/mods+xml, application/mads+xml, application/mets+xml, application/marcxml+xml, and application/sru+xml](/specs/IETF/RFC/6207 "This document specifies media types for the following formats: MODS (Metadata Object Description Schema), MADS (Metadata Authority Description Schema), METS (Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard), MARCXML (MARC21 XML Schema), and the SRU (Search/Retrieve via URL Response Format) protocol response XML schema. These are all XML schemas providing representations of various forms of information including metadata and search results.")
[`application/mods+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/mods+xml) | [**RFC 6207**: The Media Types application/mods+xml, application/mads+xml, application/mets+xml, application/marcxml+xml, and application/sru+xml](/specs/IETF/RFC/6207 "This document specifies media types for the following formats: MODS (Metadata Object Description Schema), MADS (Metadata Authority Description Schema), METS (Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard), MARCXML (MARC21 XML Schema), and the SRU (Search/Retrieve via URL Response Format) protocol response XML schema. These are all XML schemas providing representations of various forms of information including metadata and search results.")
[`application/nlsml+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/nlsml+xml) | [**RFC 6768**: Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2 (MRCPv2)](/specs/IETF/RFC/6768 "The Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2 (MRCPv2) allows client hosts to control media service resources such as speech synthesizers, recognizers, verifiers, and identifiers residing in servers on the network. MRCPv2 is not a &#34;stand-alone&#34; protocol -- it relies on other protocols, such as the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), to coordinate MRCPv2 clients and servers and manage sessions between them, and the Session Description Protocol (SDP) to describe, discover, and exchange capabilities. It also depends on SIP and SDP to establish the media sessions and associated parameters between the media source or sink and the media server. Once this is done, the MRCPv2 exchange operates over the control session established above, allowing the client to control the media processing resources on the speech resource server.")
[`application/p2p-overlay+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/p2p-overlay+xml) | [**RFC 6940**: REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) Base Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/6940 "This specification defines REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD), a peer-to-peer (P2P) signaling protocol for use on the Internet. A P2P signaling protocol provides its clients with an abstract storage and messaging service between a set of cooperating peers that form the overlay network. RELOAD is designed to support a P2P Session Initiation Protocol (P2PSIP) network, but can be utilized by other applications with similar requirements by defining new usages that specify the Kinds of data that need to be stored for a particular application. RELOAD defines a security model based on a certificate enrollment service that provides unique identities. NAT traversal is a fundamental service of the protocol. RELOAD also allows access from &#34;client&#34; nodes that do not need to route traffic or store data for others.")
[`application/patch-ops-error+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/patch-ops-error+xml) | [**RFC 5261**: An Extensible Markup Language (XML) Patch Operations Framework Utilizing XML Path Language (XPath) Selectors](/specs/IETF/RFC/5261 "Extensible Markup Language (XML) documents are widely used as containers for the exchange and storage of arbitrary data in today's systems. In order to send changes to an XML document, an entire copy of the new version must be sent, unless there is a means of indicating only the portions that have changed. This document describes an XML patch framework utilizing XML Path language (XPath) selectors. These selector values and updated new data content constitute the basis of patch operations described in this document. In addition to them, with basic <add>, <replace>, and <remove> directives a set of patches can then be applied to update an existing XML document.")
[`application/pdf`](/concepts/media-type/application/pdf) | [**RFC 8118**: The application/pdf Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/8118 "The Portable Document Format (PDF) is an ISO standard (ISO 32000-1:2008) defining a final-form document representation language in use for document exchange, including on the Internet, since 1993. This document provides an overview of the PDF format and updates the media type registration of &#34;application/pdf&#34;.")
[`application/powder+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/powder+xml) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/powder-dr**: Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER): Description Resources](/specs/W3C/TR/powder-dr "The purpose of the Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER) is to provide a means for individuals or organizations to describe a group of resources through the publication of machine-readable metadata, as motivated by the POWDER Use Cases. This document details the creation and lifecycle of Description Resources (DRs), which encapsulate such metadata. These are typically represented in a highly constrained XML dialect that is relatively human-readable. The meaning of such DRs are underpinned by formal semantics, accessible by performing a GRDDL Transform.")
[`application/powder-s+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/powder-s+xml) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/powder-dr**: Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER): Description Resources](/specs/W3C/TR/powder-dr "The purpose of the Protocol for Web Description Resources (POWDER) is to provide a means for individuals or organizations to describe a group of resources through the publication of machine-readable metadata, as motivated by the POWDER Use Cases. This document details the creation and lifecycle of Description Resources (DRs), which encapsulate such metadata. These are typically represented in a highly constrained XML dialect that is relatively human-readable. The meaning of such DRs are underpinned by formal semantics, accessible by performing a GRDDL Transform.")
[`application/problem+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/problem+json) | [**RFC 7807**: Problem Details for HTTP APIs](/specs/IETF/RFC/7807 "This document defines a &#34;problem detail&#34; as a way to carry machine-readable details of errors in a HTTP response, to avoid the need to invent new error response formats for HTTP APIs.")
[`application/problem+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/problem+xml) | [**RFC 7807**: Problem Details for HTTP APIs](/specs/IETF/RFC/7807 "This document defines a &#34;problem detail&#34; as a way to carry machine-readable details of errors in a HTTP response, to avoid the need to invent new error response formats for HTTP APIs.")
[`application/rdf+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/rdf+xml) | [**RFC 3870**: application/rdf+xml Media Type Registration](/specs/IETF/RFC/3870 "This document describes a media type (application/rdf+xml) for use with the Extensible Markup Language (XML) serialization of the Resource Description Framework (RDF). RDF is a language designed to support the Semantic Web, by facilitating resource description and data exchange on the Web. RDF provides common structures that can be used for interoperable data exchange and follows the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) design principles of interoperability, evolution, and decentralization.")
[`application/rfc+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/rfc+xml) | [**Internet Draft hoffman-xml2rfc**: The 'XML2RFC' version 3 Vocabulary](/specs/IETF/I-D/hoffman-xml2rfc " This document defines the &#34;XML2RFC&#34; version 3 vocabulary; an XML-based language used for writing RFCs and Internet-Drafts. It is heavily derived from the version 2 vocabulary that is also under discussion. This document obsoletes the v2 grammar described in RFC 2629 and its expected followup, draft-reschke-xml2rfc.")
[`application/samlassertion+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/samlassertion+xml) | [**OASIS Standard saml-bindings-2.0-os**: Bindings for the OASIS Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) V2.0](/specs/OASIS/standard/saml-bindings-2.0-os "This specification defines protocol bindings for the use of SAML assertions and request-response messages in communications protocols and frameworks.")
[`application/samlmetadata+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/samlmetadata+xml) | [**OASIS Standard saml-metadata-2.0-os**: Metadata for the OASIS Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) V2.0](/specs/OASIS/standard/saml-metadata-2.0-os "SAML profiles require agreements between system entities regarding identifiers, binding support and endpoints, certificates and keys, and so forth. A metadata specification is useful for describing this information in a standardized way. This document defines an extensible metadata format for SAML system entities, organized by roles that reflect SAML profiles. Such roles include that of Identity Provider, Service Provider, Affiliation, Attribute Authority, Attribute Consumer, and Policy Decision Point.")
[`application/sgml`](/concepts/media-type/application/sgml) | [**RFC 1874**: SGML Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/1874 "This document proposes new media sub-types of Text/SGML and Application/SGML. These media types can be used in the exchange of SGML documents and their entities. Specific details for the exchange or encapsulation of groups of related SGML entities using MIME are currently being considered by the mimesgml Working Group.")
[`application/soap+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/soap+xml) | [**RFC 3902**: The "application/soap+xml" Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/3902 "This document defines the &#34;application/soap+xml&#34; media type which can be used to describe SOAP 1.2 messages serialized as XML 1.0.")
[`application/sql`](/concepts/media-type/application/sql) | [**RFC 6922**: The application/sql Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/6922 "This document registers the application/sql media type to be used for the Structured Query Language (SQL).")
[`application/sru+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/sru+xml) | [**RFC 6207**: The Media Types application/mods+xml, application/mads+xml, application/mets+xml, application/marcxml+xml, and application/sru+xml](/specs/IETF/RFC/6207 "This document specifies media types for the following formats: MODS (Metadata Object Description Schema), MADS (Metadata Authority Description Schema), METS (Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard), MARCXML (MARC21 XML Schema), and the SRU (Search/Retrieve via URL Response Format) protocol response XML schema. These are all XML schemas providing representations of various forms of information including metadata and search results.")
[`application/trig`](/concepts/media-type/application/trig) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/trig**: TriG](/specs/W3C/TR/trig "The Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a general-purpose language for representing information in the Web. This document defines a textual syntax for RDF called TriG that allows an RDF dataset to be completely written in a compact and natural text form, with abbreviations for common usage patterns and datatypes. TriG is an extension of the Turtle [turtle] format.")
[`application/vcard+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/vcard+xml) | [**RFC 6351**: xCard: vCard XML Representation](/specs/IETF/RFC/6351 "This document defines the XML schema of the vCard data format.")
[`application/vnd.apple.mpegurl`](/concepts/media-type/application/vnd.apple.mpegurl) | [**RFC 8216**: HTTP Live Streaming](/specs/IETF/RFC/8216 "This document describes a protocol for transferring unbounded streams of multimedia data. It specifies the data format of the files and the actions to be taken by the server (sender) and the clients (receivers) of the streams. It describes version 7 of this protocol.")
[`application/webpush-options+json`](/concepts/media-type/application/webpush-options+json) | [**Internet Draft ietf-webpush-vapid**: Voluntary Application Server Identification (VAPID) for Web Push](/specs/IETF/I-D/ietf-webpush-vapid "An application server can use the method described to voluntarily identify itself to a push service. This identification information can be used by the push service to attribute requests that are made by the same application server to a single entity. An application server can include additional information that the operator of a push service can use to contact the operator of the application server. This identification information can be used to restrict the use of a push subscription a single application server.")
[`application/xliff+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/xliff+xml) | [**OASIS Standard xliff-core-v2.1**: XLIFF Version 2.1](/specs/OASIS/standard/xliff-core-v2.1 "This document defines version 2.1 of the XML Localization Interchange File Format (XLIFF). The purpose of this vocabulary is to store localizable data and carry it from one step of the localization process to the other, while allowing interoperability between and among tools.")
[`application/xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/xml) | [**RFC 7303**: XML Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/7303 "This specification standardizes three media types - application/xml, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML) while defining text/xml and text/xml-external-parsed-entity as aliases for the respective application/ types. This specification also standardizes the '+xml' suffix for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME entities.")
[`application/xml-dtd`](/concepts/media-type/application/xml-dtd) | [**RFC 7303**: XML Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/7303 "This specification standardizes three media types - application/xml, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML) while defining text/xml and text/xml-external-parsed-entity as aliases for the respective application/ types. This specification also standardizes the '+xml' suffix for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME entities.")
[`application/xml-external-parsed-entity`](/concepts/media-type/application/xml-external-parsed-entity) | [**RFC 7303**: XML Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/7303 "This specification standardizes three media types - application/xml, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML) while defining text/xml and text/xml-external-parsed-entity as aliases for the respective application/ types. This specification also standardizes the '+xml' suffix for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME entities.")
[`application/xml-patch+xml`](/concepts/media-type/application/xml-patch+xml) | [**RFC 7351**: A Media Type for XML Patch Operations](/specs/IETF/RFC/7351 "The XML Patch media type &#34;application/xml-patch+xml&#34; defines an XML document structure for expressing a sequence of patch operations that are applied to an XML document. The XML Patch document format's foundations are defined in RFC 5261, this specification defines a document format and a media type registration, so that XML Patch documents can be labeled with a media type, for example in HTTP conversations. In addition to the media type registration, this specification also updates RFC 5261 in some aspects, limiting these updates to cases where RFC 5261 needed to be fixed, or was hard to understand.")
[`application/zlib`](/concepts/media-type/application/zlib) | [**RFC 6713**: The 'application/zlib' and 'application/gzip' Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/6713 "This document defines the 'application/gzip' and 'application/zlib' media types for compressed data using the gzip and zlib compression formats.")
[`font/collection`](/concepts/media-type/font/collection) | [**RFC 8081**: The "font" Top-Level Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/8081 "This memo serves to register and document the &#34;font&#34; top-level media type, under which subtypes for representation formats for fonts may be registered. This document also serves as a registration application for a set of intended subtypes, which are representative of some existing subtypes already in use, and currently registered under the &#34;application&#34; tree by their separate registrations.")
[`font/otf`](/concepts/media-type/font/otf) | [**RFC 8081**: The "font" Top-Level Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/8081 "This memo serves to register and document the &#34;font&#34; top-level media type, under which subtypes for representation formats for fonts may be registered. This document also serves as a registration application for a set of intended subtypes, which are representative of some existing subtypes already in use, and currently registered under the &#34;application&#34; tree by their separate registrations.")
[`font/sfnt`](/concepts/media-type/font/sfnt) | [**RFC 8081**: The "font" Top-Level Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/8081 "This memo serves to register and document the &#34;font&#34; top-level media type, under which subtypes for representation formats for fonts may be registered. This document also serves as a registration application for a set of intended subtypes, which are representative of some existing subtypes already in use, and currently registered under the &#34;application&#34; tree by their separate registrations.")
[`font/ttf`](/concepts/media-type/font/ttf) | [**RFC 8081**: The "font" Top-Level Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/8081 "This memo serves to register and document the &#34;font&#34; top-level media type, under which subtypes for representation formats for fonts may be registered. This document also serves as a registration application for a set of intended subtypes, which are representative of some existing subtypes already in use, and currently registered under the &#34;application&#34; tree by their separate registrations.")
[`font/woff`](/concepts/media-type/font/woff) | [**RFC 8081**: The "font" Top-Level Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/8081 "This memo serves to register and document the &#34;font&#34; top-level media type, under which subtypes for representation formats for fonts may be registered. This document also serves as a registration application for a set of intended subtypes, which are representative of some existing subtypes already in use, and currently registered under the &#34;application&#34; tree by their separate registrations.")
[`font/woff2`](/concepts/media-type/font/woff2) | [**RFC 8081**: The "font" Top-Level Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/8081 "This memo serves to register and document the &#34;font&#34; top-level media type, under which subtypes for representation formats for fonts may be registered. This document also serves as a registration application for a set of intended subtypes, which are representative of some existing subtypes already in use, and currently registered under the &#34;application&#34; tree by their separate registrations.")
[`image/jpeg`](/concepts/media-type/image/jpeg) | [**ISO/IEC 10918**: Information technology — Digital compression and coding of continuous-tone still images: JPEG File Interchange Format (JFIF) ](/specs/ISO/IEC/10918 "The JPEG File Interchange Format (JFIF) is a minimal file format which enables the exchange of JPEG encoded images (according to Rec. ITU-T T.81 / ISO/IEC 10918-1) having 1 or 3 colour channels and 8 bits per colour channel between a wide variety of platforms and applications. This minimal format does not include some advanced features found in various other specified file formats. The purpose of this format is to provide for a basic form of exchange of JPEG images. The optional inclusion of thumbnail images for rapid browsing is also supported.")
[`image/png`](/concepts/media-type/image/png) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/PNG**: Portable Network Graphics](/specs/W3C/TR/PNG "This document describes PNG (Portable Network Graphics), an extensible file format for the lossless, portable, well-compressed storage of raster images. PNG provides a patent-free replacement for GIF and can also replace many common uses of TIFF. Indexed-color, grayscale, and truecolor images are supported, plus an optional alpha channel. Sample depths range from 1 to 16 bits. PNG is designed to work well in online viewing applications, such as the World Wide Web, so it is fully streamable with a progressive display option. PNG is robust, providing both full file integrity checking and simple detection of common transmission errors. Also, PNG can store gamma and chromaticity data for improved color matching on heterogeneous platforms.")
[`message/http`](/concepts/media-type/message/http) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`multipart/form-data`](/concepts/media-type/multipart/form-data) | [**RFC 2388**: Returning Values from Forms: multipart/form-data](/specs/IETF/RFC/2388 "This specification defines an Internet Media Type, multipart/form-data, which can be used by a wide variety of applications and transported by a wide variety of protocols as a way of returning a set of values as the result of a user filling out a form.")
[`text/csv`](/concepts/media-type/text/csv)<sub title=" There are 2 definitions for this value">2</sub> | [**RFC 4180**: Common Format and MIME Type for Comma-Separated Values (CSV) Files](/specs/IETF/RFC/4180 "This RFC documents the format used for Comma-Separated Values (CSV) files and registers the associated MIME type &#34;text/csv&#34;.")<br/>[**RFC 7111**: URI Fragment Identifiers for the text/csv Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/7111 "This memo defines URI fragment identifiers for text/csv MIME entities. These fragment identifiers make it possible to refer to parts of a text/csv MIME entity identified by row, column, or cell. Fragment identification can use single items or ranges.")
[`text/event-stream`](/concepts/media-type/text/event-stream) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/eventsource**: Server-Sent Events](/specs/W3C/TR/eventsource " specification defines an API for opening an HTTP connection for receiving push notifications from a server in the form of DOM events. The API is designed such that it can be extended to work with other push notification schemes such as Push SMS.")
[`text/grammar-ref-list`](/concepts/media-type/text/grammar-ref-list) | [**RFC 6768**: Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2 (MRCPv2)](/specs/IETF/RFC/6768 "The Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2 (MRCPv2) allows client hosts to control media service resources such as speech synthesizers, recognizers, verifiers, and identifiers residing in servers on the network. MRCPv2 is not a &#34;stand-alone&#34; protocol -- it relies on other protocols, such as the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), to coordinate MRCPv2 clients and servers and manage sessions between them, and the Session Description Protocol (SDP) to describe, discover, and exchange capabilities. It also depends on SIP and SDP to establish the media sessions and associated parameters between the media source or sink and the media server. Once this is done, the MRCPv2 exchange operates over the control session established above, allowing the client to control the media processing resources on the speech resource server.")
[`text/html`](/concepts/media-type/text/html) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/html**: Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)](/specs/W3C/TR/html "This specification defines the 5th major version, first minor revision of the core language of the World Wide Web: the Hypertext Markup Language (HTML). In this version, new features continue to be introduced to help Web application authors, new elements continue to be introduced based on research into prevailing authoring practices, and special attention continues to be given to defining clear conformance criteria for user agents in an effort to improve interoperability.")
[`text/markdown`](/concepts/media-type/text/markdown) | [**RFC 7763**: The text/markdown Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/7763 "This document registers the text/markdown media type for use with Markdown, a family of plain-text formatting syntaxes that optionally can be converted to formal markup languages such as HTML.")
[`text/plain`](/concepts/media-type/text/plain) | [**RFC 5174**: URI Fragment Identifiers for the text/plain Media Type](/specs/IETF/RFC/5174 "This memo defines URI fragment identifiers for text/plain MIME entities. These fragment identifiers make it possible to refer to parts of a text/plain MIME entity, either identified by character position or range, or by line position or range. Fragment identifiers may also contain information for integrity checks to make them more robust.")
[`text/sgml`](/concepts/media-type/text/sgml) | [**RFC 1874**: SGML Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/1874 "This document proposes new media sub-types of Text/SGML and Application/SGML. These media types can be used in the exchange of SGML documents and their entities. Specific details for the exchange or encapsulation of groups of related SGML entities using MIME are currently being considered by the mimesgml Working Group.")
[`text/vcard`](/concepts/media-type/text/vcard) | [**RFC 6350**: vCard Format Specification](/specs/IETF/RFC/6350 "This document defines the vCard data format for representing and exchanging a variety of information about individuals and other entities (e.g., formatted and structured name and delivery addresses, email address, multiple telephone numbers, photograph, logo, audio clips, etc.). This document obsoletes RFCs 2425, 2426, and 4770, and updates RFC 2739.")
[`text/vtt`](/concepts/media-type/text/vtt) | [**W3C TR http://www.w3.org/TR/webvtt**: Web Video Text Tracks (WebVTT)](/specs/W3C/TR/webvtt "This specification defines WebVTT, the Web Video Text Tracks format. Its main use is for marking up external text track resources in connection with the HTML <track> element. WebVTT files provide captions or subtitles for video content, and also text video descriptions, chapters for content navigation, and more generally any form of metadata that is time-aligned with audio or video content.")
[`text/xml`](/concepts/media-type/text/xml) | [**RFC 3023**: XML Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/3023 "This document standardizes five new media types - text/xml, application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML). This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix '+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) entities. XML MIME entities are currently exchanged via the HyperText Transfer Protocol on the World Wide Web, are an integral part of the WebDAV protocol for remote web authoring, and are expected to have utility in many domains.")
[`text/xml-external-parsed-entity`](/concepts/media-type/text/xml-external-parsed-entity) | [**RFC 3023**: XML Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/3023 "This document standardizes five new media types - text/xml, application/xml, text/xml-external-parsed-entity, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML). This document also standardizes a convention (using the suffix '+xml') for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) entities. XML MIME entities are currently exchanged via the HyperText Transfer Protocol on the World Wide Web, are an integral part of the WebDAV protocol for remote web authoring, and are expected to have utility in many domains.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../media-type.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
