---
layout:    page
title:     "OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata"
permalink: /concepts/oauth-client-metadata/
---



The following 21 OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata values (20 distinct values) were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters/oauth-parameters.xhtml#client-metadata) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`client_id`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/client_id "OAuth 2.0 client identifier string. It SHOULD NOT be currently valid for any other registered client, though an authorization server MAY issue the same client identifier to multiple instances of a registered client at its discretion.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`client_id_issued_at`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/client_id_issued_at "Time at which the client identifier was issued.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`client_name`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/client_name "URL string of a web page providing information about the client. If present, the server SHOULD display this URL to the end-user in a clickable fashion.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`client_secret`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/client_secret "OAuth 2.0 client secret string. If issued, this MUST be unique for each &#34;client_id&#34; and SHOULD be unique for multiple instances of a client using the same &#34;client_id&#34;.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`client_secret_expires_at`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/client_secret_expires_at "Time at which the client secret will expire or 0 if it will not expire.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`client_uri`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/client_uri "URL string of a web page providing information about the client.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`contacts`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/contacts "Array of strings representing ways to contact people responsible for this client, typically email addresses.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`grant_types`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/grant_types "Array of OAuth 2.0 grant type strings that the client can use at the token endpoint.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`jwks_uri`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/jwks_uri "Client's JSON Web Key Set document value, which contains the client's public keys. The value of this field MUST be a JSON object containing a valid JWK Set. These keys can be used by higher-level protocols that use signing or encryption. This parameter is intended to be used by clients that cannot use the &#34;jwks_uri&#34; parameter, such as native clients that cannot host public URLs.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`logo_uri`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/logo_uri "URL string that references a logo for the client. If present, the server SHOULD display this image to the end-user during approval.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`policy_uri`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/policy_uri "URL string that points to a human-readable privacy policy document that describes how the deployment organization collects, uses, retains, and discloses personal data.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`redirect_uris`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/redirect_uris "Array of redirection URI strings for use in redirect-based flows such as the authorization code and implicit flows.")<sub title="There are 2 definitions for this value">2</sub> | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`registration_access_token`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/registration_access_token "String containing the access token to be used at the client configuration endpoint to perform subsequent operations upon the client registration.") | [**RFC 7592**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Management Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7592 "This specification defines methods for management of OAuth 2.0 dynamic client registrations for use cases in which the properties of a registered client may need to be changed during the lifetime of the client. Not all authorization servers supporting dynamic client registration will support these management methods.")
[`registration_client_uri`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/registration_client_uri "String containing the fully qualified URL of the client configuration endpoint for this client.") | [**RFC 7592**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Management Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7592 "This specification defines methods for management of OAuth 2.0 dynamic client registrations for use cases in which the properties of a registered client may need to be changed during the lifetime of the client. Not all authorization servers supporting dynamic client registration will support these management methods.")
[`response_types`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/response_types "Array of the OAuth 2.0 response type strings that the client can use at the authorization endpoint.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`scope`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/scope "String containing a space-separated list of scope values (as described in OAuth 2.0) that the client can use when requesting access tokens.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`software_id`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/software_id "A unique identifier string (e.g., a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID)) assigned by the client developer or software publisher used by registration endpoints to identify the client software to be dynamically registered.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`software_version`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/software_version "A version identifier string for the client software identified by &#34;software_id&#34;. The value of the &#34;software_version&#34; SHOULD change on any update to the client software identified by the same &#34;software_id&#34;.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`token_endpoint_auth_method`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/token_endpoint_auth_method "String indicator of the requested authentication method for the token endpoint. Values defined by this specification are: &#34;none&#34;: The client is a public client as defined in OAuth 2.0 and does not have a client secret; &#34;client_secret_post&#34;: The client uses the HTTP POST parameters as defined in OAuth 2.0; &#34;client_secret_basic&#34;: The client uses HTTP Basic as defined in OAuth 2.0. Additional values can be defined via the IANA &#34;OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods&#34;") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")
[`tos_uri`](/concepts/oauth-client-metadata/tos_uri "URL string that points to a human-readable terms of service document for the client that describes a contractual relationship between the end-user and the client that the end-user accepts when authorizing the client.") | [**RFC 7591**: OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/7591 "This specification defines mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 clients with authorization servers. Registration requests send a set of desired client metadata values to the authorization server. The resulting registration responses return a client identifier to use at the authorization server and the client metadata values registered for the client. The client can then use this registration information to communicate with the authorization server using the OAuth 2.0 protocol. This specification also defines a set of common client metadata fields and values for clients to use during registration.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../oauth-client-metadata.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
