---
layout:    page
title:     "OAuth Parameters"
permalink: /concepts/oauth-parameters
---



The following 6 OAuth Parameter values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official OAuth Parameter registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters/oauth-parameters.xhtml#parameters) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

OAuth Parameter | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`assertion`](/concepts/oauth-parameter/assertion) | [**RFC 7521**: Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants](/specs/IETF/RFC/7521 "This specification provides a framework for the use of assertions with OAuth 2.0 in the form of a new client authentication mechanism and a new authorization grant type. Mechanisms are specified for transporting assertions during interactions with a token endpoint; general processing rules are also specified. The intent of this specification is to provide a common framework for OAuth 2.0 to interwork with other identity systems using assertions and to provide alternative client authentication mechanisms. Note that this specification only defines abstract message flows and processing rules. In order to be implementable, companion specifications are necessary to provide the corresponding concrete instantiations.")
[`client_assertion`](/concepts/oauth-parameter/client_assertion) | [**RFC 7521**: Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants](/specs/IETF/RFC/7521 "This specification provides a framework for the use of assertions with OAuth 2.0 in the form of a new client authentication mechanism and a new authorization grant type. Mechanisms are specified for transporting assertions during interactions with a token endpoint; general processing rules are also specified. The intent of this specification is to provide a common framework for OAuth 2.0 to interwork with other identity systems using assertions and to provide alternative client authentication mechanisms. Note that this specification only defines abstract message flows and processing rules. In order to be implementable, companion specifications are necessary to provide the corresponding concrete instantiations.")
[`client_assertion_type`](/concepts/oauth-parameter/client_assertion_type) | [**RFC 7521**: Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants](/specs/IETF/RFC/7521 "This specification provides a framework for the use of assertions with OAuth 2.0 in the form of a new client authentication mechanism and a new authorization grant type. Mechanisms are specified for transporting assertions during interactions with a token endpoint; general processing rules are also specified. The intent of this specification is to provide a common framework for OAuth 2.0 to interwork with other identity systems using assertions and to provide alternative client authentication mechanisms. Note that this specification only defines abstract message flows and processing rules. In order to be implementable, companion specifications are necessary to provide the corresponding concrete instantiations.")
[`code_challenge`](/concepts/oauth-parameter/code_challenge) | [**RFC 7636**: Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients](/specs/IETF/RFC/7636 "OAuth 2.0 public clients utilizing the Authorization Code Grant are susceptible to the authorization code interception attack.  This specification describes the attack as well as a technique to mitigate against the threat through the use of Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE, pronounced &#34;pixy&#34;).")
[`code_challenge_method`](/concepts/oauth-parameter/code_challenge_method) | [**RFC 7636**: Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients](/specs/IETF/RFC/7636 "OAuth 2.0 public clients utilizing the Authorization Code Grant are susceptible to the authorization code interception attack.  This specification describes the attack as well as a technique to mitigate against the threat through the use of Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE, pronounced &#34;pixy&#34;).")
[`code_verifier`](/concepts/oauth-parameter/code_verifier) | [**RFC 7636**: Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients](/specs/IETF/RFC/7636 "OAuth 2.0 public clients utilizing the Authorization Code Grant are susceptible to the authorization code interception attack.  This specification describes the attack as well as a technique to mitigate against the threat through the use of Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE, pronounced &#34;pixy&#34;).")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="oauth-parameters.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
