---
layout:    page
title:     "Structured Syntax Suffixes"
permalink: /concepts/structured-syntax-suffixes
---



The following 6 Structured Syntax Suffix values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official Structured Syntax Suffix registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/media-type-structured-suffix/media-type-structured-suffix.xhtml) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

Structured Syntax Suffix | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`+ber`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+ber) | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+der`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+der) | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+fastinfoset`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+fastinfoset) | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+json`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+json) | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+wbxml`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+wbxml) | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+zip`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+zip) | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="structured-syntax-suffixes.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
