---
layout:    page
title:     "Structured Syntax Suffixes"
permalink: /concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/
---



The following 11 Structured Syntax Suffix values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official Structured Syntax Suffix registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/media-type-structured-suffix/media-type-structured-suffix.xhtml) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

Structured Syntax Suffix | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`+ber`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+ber "The suffix &#34;+ber&#34; MAY be used with any media type whose representation follows the BER transfer syntax.") | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+cbor`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+cbor "The suffix &#34;+cbor&#34; MAY be used with any media type whose representation follows the CBOR transfer syntax.") | [**RFC 7049**: Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)](/specs/IETF/RFC/7049 "The Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) is a data format whose design goals include the possibility of extremely small code size, fairly small message size, and extensibility without the need for version negotiation. These design goals make it different from earlier binary serializations such as ASN.1 and MessagePack.")
[`+der`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+der "The suffix &#34;+der&#34; MAY be used with any media type whose representation follows the DER transfer syntax.") | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+exi`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+exi "This document defines a new Structured Syntax Suffix &#34;+exi&#34; for use in media types for a specific class of protocols, where the &#34;exi&#34; content-type encoding or the generic &#34;application/exi&#34; media type are not viable.") | [**Internet Draft shelby-exi-registration**: The +exi Media Type Suffix](/specs/IETF/I-D/shelby-exi-registration "Efficient XML Interchange (EXI) is an XML representation technique specified by the W3C to provide a time and space efficient encoding for XML documents. This document defines a new Structured Syntax Suffix &#34;+exi&#34; for use in a specific class of protocols, where &#34;exi&#34; content-type encoding or the generic &#34;application/exi&#34; media type are not applicable.")
[`+fastinfoset`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+fastinfoset "The suffix &#34;+fastinfoset&#34; MAY be used with any media type whose representation follows that established for &#34;application/fastinfoset&#34;.") | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+json`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+json "The suffix &#34;+json&#34; MAY be used with any media type whose representation follows that established for &#34;application/json&#34;.") | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+json-seq`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+json-seq "The use case for the &#34;+json-seq&#34; structured syntax suffix is the same as for &#34;+json&#34;: It SHOULD be used by media types when parsing the JSON text sequence of a media type leads to a meaningful result, by simply using the generic JSON text sequence processing.") | [**RFC 8091**: A Media Type Structured Syntax Suffix for JSON Text Sequences](/specs/IETF/RFC/8091 "Structured Syntax Suffixes for media types allow other media types to build on them and make it explicit that they are built on an existing media type as their foundation. This specification defines and registers &#34;json-seq&#34; as a structured syntax suffix for JSON text sequences.")
[`+jwt`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+jwt "The &#34;+jwt&#34; structured syntax suffix can be used to indicate that the media type is encoded as a JWT.") | [**RFC 8417**: Security Event Token (SET)](/specs/IETF/RFC/8417 "This specification defines the Security Event Token (SET) data structure. A SET describes statements of fact from the perspective of an issuer about a subject. These statements of fact represent an event that occurred directly to or about a security subject, for example, a statement about the issuance or revocation of a token on behalf of a subject. This specification is intended to enable representing security- and identity-related events. A SET is a JSON Web Token (JWT), which can be optionally signed and/or encrypted. SETs can be distributed via protocols such as HTTP.")
[`+wbxml`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+wbxml "The suffix &#34;+wbxml&#34; MAY be used with any media type whose representation follows that established for &#34;application/vnd.wap.wbxml&#34;.") | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")
[`+xml`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+xml "When a new media type is introduced for an XML-based format, the name of the media type SHOULD end with '+xml' unless generic XML processing is in some way inappropriate for documents of the new type.") | [**RFC 7303**: XML Media Types](/specs/IETF/RFC/7303 "This specification standardizes three media types - application/xml, application/xml-external-parsed-entity, and application/xml-dtd - for use in exchanging network entities that are related to the Extensible Markup Language (XML) while defining text/xml and text/xml-external-parsed-entity as aliases for the respective application/ types. This specification also standardizes the '+xml' suffix for naming media types outside of these five types when those media types represent XML MIME entities.")
[`+zip`](/concepts/structured-syntax-suffix/+zip "The suffix &#34;+zip&#34; MAY be used with any media type whose representation follows that established for &#34;application/zip&#34;.") | [**RFC 6839**: Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6839 "A content media type name sometimes includes partitioned meta-information distinguished by a structured syntax to permit noting an attribute of the media as a suffix to the name. This document defines several structured syntax suffixes for use with media type registrations. In particular, it defines and registers the &#34;+json&#34;, &#34;+ber&#34;, &#34;+der&#34;, &#34;+fastinfoset&#34;, &#34;+wbxml&#34; and &#34;+zip&#34; structured syntax suffixes, and provides a media type structured syntax suffix registration form for the &#34;+xml&#34; structured syntax suffix.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../structured-syntax-suffix.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
