---
layout:    page
title:     "URI Schemes"
permalink: /concepts/uri-scheme/
---



The following 36 URI Scheme values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official URI Scheme registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes/uri-schemes.xhtml) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

URI Scheme | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`about`](/concepts/uri-scheme/about "The resource that is referenced by a particular &#34;about&#34; URI is denoted by the &lt;about-token> part of the URI.") | [**RFC 6694**: The "about" URI Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/6694 "This document describes the &#34;about&#34; URI scheme, which is widely used by Web browsers and some other applications to designate access to their internal resources, such as settings, application information, hidden built-in functionality, and so on.")
[`acct`](/concepts/uri-scheme/acct "Although 'acct' URIs take the form &#34;user@host&#34;, the scheme is designed for the purpose of identification instead of interaction. The &#34;Internet resource&#34; identified by an 'acct' URI is a user's account hosted at a service provider, where the service provider is typically associated with a DNS domain name.") | [**RFC 7565**: The 'acct' URI Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/7565 "This document defines the 'acct' Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme as a way to identify a user's account at a service provider, irrespective of the particular protocols that can be used to interact with the account.")
[`arcp`](/concepts/uri-scheme/arcp "The &#34;arcp&#34; URI scheme follows the RFC 3986 syntax for hierarchical URIs. The &#34;arcp-authority&#34; component provides a unique identifier for the opened archive. The &#34;path-absolute&#34; component provides the absolute path of a resource (e.g. a file or directory) within the archive.") | [**Internet Draft soilandreyes-arcp**: The Archive and Packaging (arcp) URI scheme](/specs/IETF/I-D/soilandreyes-arcp "This specification proposes the Application and Packaging Pointer URI scheme &#34;arcp&#34;. arcp URIs can be used to consume or reference hypermedia resources bundled inside a file archive or an application package, as well as to resolve URIs for archive resources within a programmatic framework. This URI scheme provides mechanisms to generate a unique base URI to represent the root of the archive, so that relative URI references in a bundled resource can be resolved within the archive without having to extract the archive content on the local file system. An arcp URI can be used for purposes of isolation (e.g. when consuming multiple archives), security constraints (avoiding &#34;climb out&#34; from the archive), or for externally identifying sub-resources referenced by hypermedia formats.")
[`cap`](/concepts/uri-scheme/cap "The CAP URL scheme is used to designate both calendar stores and calendars accessible using the CAP protocol.") | [**RFC 4324**: Calendar Access Protocol (CAP)](/specs/IETF/RFC/4324 "The Calendar Access Protocol (CAP) described in this memo permits a Calendar User (CU) to utilize a Calendar User Agent (CUA) to access an iCAL-based Calendar Store (CS). At the time of this writing, three vendors are implementing CAP, but it has already been determined that some changes are needed. In order to get implementation experience, the participants felt that a CAP specification is needed to preserve many years of work. Many properties in CAP which have had many years of debate, can be used by other iCalendar protocols.")
[`cid`](/concepts/uri-scheme/cid "The &#34;mid&#34; (Message-ID) and &#34;cid&#34; (Content-ID) URL schemes provide identifiers for messages and their body parts. The &#34;cid&#34; scheme refers to a specific body part of a message; its use is generally limited to references to other body parts in the same message as the referring body part.") | [**RFC 2392**: Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform Resource Locators](/specs/IETF/RFC/2392 "The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) schemes, &#34;cid:&#34; and &#34;mid:&#34; allow references to messages and the body parts of messages. For example, within a single multipart message, one HTML body part might include embedded references to other parts of the same message.")
[`coap+tcp`](/concepts/uri-scheme/coap+tcp "The &#34;coap+tcp&#34; URI scheme identifies CoAP resources that are intended to be accessible using CoAP over TCP.") | [**RFC 8283**: CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets](/specs/IETF/RFC/8283 "The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP), although inspired by HTTP, was designed to use UDP instead of TCP. The message layer of CoAP over UDP includes support for reliable delivery, simple congestion control, and flow control. Some environments benefit from the availability of CoAP carried over reliable transports such as TCP or Transport Layer Security (TLS). This document outlines the changes required to use CoAP over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets transports. It also formally updates RFC 7641 for use with these transports and RFC 7959 to enable the use of larger messages over a reliable transport.")
[`coap+ws`](/concepts/uri-scheme/coap+ws "The &#34;coap+ws&#34; URI scheme identifies CoAP resources that are intended to be accessible using CoAP over WebSockets.") | [**RFC 8283**: CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets](/specs/IETF/RFC/8283 "The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP), although inspired by HTTP, was designed to use UDP instead of TCP. The message layer of CoAP over UDP includes support for reliable delivery, simple congestion control, and flow control. Some environments benefit from the availability of CoAP carried over reliable transports such as TCP or Transport Layer Security (TLS). This document outlines the changes required to use CoAP over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets transports. It also formally updates RFC 7641 for use with these transports and RFC 7959 to enable the use of larger messages over a reliable transport.")
[`coaps+tcp`](/concepts/uri-scheme/coaps+tcp "The &#34;coaps+tcp&#34; URI scheme identifies CoAP resources that are intended to be accessible using CoAP over TCP secured with TLS.") | [**RFC 8283**: CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets](/specs/IETF/RFC/8283 "The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP), although inspired by HTTP, was designed to use UDP instead of TCP. The message layer of CoAP over UDP includes support for reliable delivery, simple congestion control, and flow control. Some environments benefit from the availability of CoAP carried over reliable transports such as TCP or Transport Layer Security (TLS). This document outlines the changes required to use CoAP over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets transports. It also formally updates RFC 7641 for use with these transports and RFC 7959 to enable the use of larger messages over a reliable transport.")
[`coaps+ws`](/concepts/uri-scheme/coaps+ws "The &#34;coaps+ws&#34; URI scheme identifies CoAP resources that are intended to be accessible using CoAP over WebSockets secured by TLS.") | [**RFC 8283**: CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets](/specs/IETF/RFC/8283 "The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP), although inspired by HTTP, was designed to use UDP instead of TCP. The message layer of CoAP over UDP includes support for reliable delivery, simple congestion control, and flow control. Some environments benefit from the availability of CoAP carried over reliable transports such as TCP or Transport Layer Security (TLS). This document outlines the changes required to use CoAP over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets transports. It also formally updates RFC 7641 for use with these transports and RFC 7959 to enable the use of larger messages over a reliable transport.")
[`data`](/concepts/uri-scheme/data "Some applications that use URLs also have a need to embed (small) media type data directly inline. This document defines a new URL scheme that would work like 'immediate addressing'.") | [**RFC 2397**: The "data" URL scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/2397 "A new URL scheme, &#34;data&#34;, is defined. It allows inclusion of small data items as &#34;immediate&#34; data, as if it had been included externally.")
[`dns`](/concepts/uri-scheme/dns "A DNS URI designates a DNS resource record set, referenced by domain name, class, type, and, optionally, the authority.") | [**RFC 4501**: Domain Name System Uniform Resource Identifiers](/specs/IETF/RFC/4501 "This document defines Uniform Resource Identifiers for Domain Name System resources.")
[`example`](/concepts/uri-scheme/example "There is a need for a scheme name that can be used for examples in documentation without fear of conflicts with current or future actual schemes. The scheme &#34;example&#34; is hereby registered as a 'permanent' scheme for that purpose.") | [**RFC 7595**: Guidelines and Registration Procedures for URI Schemes](/specs/IETF/RFC/7595 "This document updates the guidelines and recommendations, as well as the IANA registration processes, for the definition of Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes.")
[`file`](/concepts/uri-scheme/file "A file URI identifies an object (a &#34;file&#34;) stored in a structured object naming and accessing environment on a host (a &#34;file system&#34;). The URI can be used in discussions about the file, and if other conditions are met it can be dereferenced to directly access the file.") | [**RFC 8089**: The "file" URI Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/8089 "This document provides a more complete specification of the &#34;file&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme and replaces the very brief definition in Section 3.10 of RFC 1738. It defines a common syntax that is intended to interoperate across the broad spectrum of existing usages. At the same time, it notes some other current practices around the use of file URIs.")
[`ftp`](/concepts/uri-scheme/ftp "The FTP URL scheme is used to designate files and directories on Internet hosts accessible using the FTP protocol.") | [**RFC 1738**: Uniform Resource Locators (URL)](/specs/IETF/RFC/1738 "This document specifies a Uniform Resource Locator (URL), the syntax and semantics of formalized information for location and access of resources via the Internet.")
[`geo`](/concepts/uri-scheme/geo "The 'geo' URI scheme provides the textual representation of the location's spatial coordinates in either two or three dimensions (latitude, longitude, and optionally altitude for the default CRS of WGS-84).") | [**RFC 5870**: A Uniform Resource Identifier for Geographic Locations ('geo' URI)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5870 "This document specifies a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) for geographic locations using the 'geo' scheme name. A 'geo' URI identifies a physical location in a two- or three-dimensional coordinate reference system in a compact, simple, human-readable, and protocol-independent way. The default coordinate reference system used is the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS-84).")
[`h323`](/concepts/uri-scheme/h323 "The H.323 URL is intended to help an entity resolve the address of another H.323 entity, where an &#34;entity&#34; may be a user, a device, or a service. The &#34;user&#34; portion of the URL specifies an alias for the entity, without carrying any information about the location of the entity. The &#34;hostport&#34;, on the other hand, is the domain name of an Endpoint, Gatekeeper, Border Element, or other functional element to which H.323 calls may be directed or for which services may be performed.") | [**RFC 3508**: H.323 Uniform Resource Locator (URL) Scheme Registration](/specs/IETF/RFC/3508 "ITU-T Recommendation H.323 version 4 introduced an H.323-specific Uniform Resource Locator (URL). This document reproduces the H323-URL definition found in H.323, and is published as an RFC for ease of access and registration with the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA).")
[`http`](/concepts/uri-scheme/http "The &#34;http&#34; URI scheme is hereby defined for the purpose of minting identifiers according to their association with the hierarchical namespace governed by a potential HTTP origin server listening for TCP connections on a given port.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`https`](/concepts/uri-scheme/https "The &#34;https&#34; URI scheme is hereby defined for the purpose of minting identifiers according to their association with the hierarchical namespace governed by a potential HTTP origin server listening to a given TCP port for TLS-secured connections.") | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`im`](/concepts/uri-scheme/im "Use of the im: URI follows closely usage of the mailto: URI. That is, invocation of an IM URI will cause the user's instant messaging application to start, with destination address and message headers fill-in according to the information supplied in the URI.") | [**RFC 3860**: Common Profile for Instant Messaging (CPIM)](/specs/IETF/RFC/3860 "At the time this document was written, numerous instant messaging protocols were in use, and little interoperability between services based on these protocols has been achieved. This specification defines common semantics and data formats for instant messaging to facilitate the creation of gateways between instant messaging services.")
[`info`](/concepts/uri-scheme/info "This document defines the &#34;info&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme for information assets that have identifiers in public namespaces but are not part of the URI allocation. By &#34;information asset&#34; this document intends any information construct that has identity within a public namespace.") | [**RFC 4452**: The "info" URI Scheme for Information Assets with Identifiers in Public Namespaces](/specs/IETF/RFC/4452 "This document defines the &#34;info&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme for information assets with identifiers in public namespaces. Namespaces participating in the &#34;info&#34; URI scheme are regulated by an &#34;info&#34; Registry mechanism.")
[`ipp`](/concepts/uri-scheme/ipp "The &#34;ipp&#34; URL scheme MUST only be used to specify absolute URLs (relative IPP URLs are not allowed) for IPP print services and their associated network resources. The &#34;ipp&#34; URL scheme MUST only be used to specify the use of the abstract protocol defined in IPP Model over an HTTP transport, as defined in IPP Protocol.") | [**RFC 3510**: Internet Printing Protocol/1.1: IPP URL Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/3510 "This memo defines the &#34;ipp&#34; URL (Uniform Resource Locator) scheme. This memo updates IPP/1.1: Encoding and Transport (RFC 2910), by expanding and clarifying Section 5, &#34;IPP URL Scheme&#34;, of RFC 2910. An &#34;ipp&#34; URL is used to specify the network location of a print service that supports the IPP Protocol (RFC 2910), or of a network resource (for example, a print job) managed by such a print service.")
[`mailto`](/concepts/uri-scheme/mailto "A 'mailto' URI designates an &#34;Internet resource&#34;, which is the mailbox specified in the address.") | [**RFC 6068**: The 'mailto' URI Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/6068 "This document defines the format of Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) to identify resources that are reached using Internet mail. It adds better internationalization and compatibility with Internationalized Resource Identifiers to the previous syntax of 'mailto' URIs.")
[`mid`](/concepts/uri-scheme/mid "The &#34;mid&#34; (Message-ID) and &#34;cid&#34; (Content-ID) URL schemes provide identifiers for messages and their body parts. The &#34;mid&#34; scheme uses (a part of) the message-id of an email message to refer to a specific message.") | [**RFC 2392**: Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform Resource Locators](/specs/IETF/RFC/2392 "The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) schemes, &#34;cid:&#34; and &#34;mid:&#34; allow references to messages and the body parts of messages. For example, within a single multipart message, one HTML body part might include embedded references to other parts of the same message.")
[`ni`](/concepts/uri-scheme/ni "A Named Identifier can be represented using the ni URI scheme that we specifically define for the name. However it is represented, the Named Identifier *names* a resource, and the mechanism used to dereference the name and to *locate* the named resource needs to be known by the entity that dereferences it.") | [**RFC 6920**: Naming Things with Hashes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6920 "This document defines a set of ways to identify a thing (a digital object in this case) using the output from a hash function. It specifies a new URI scheme for this purpose, a way to map these to HTTP URLs, and binary and human-speakable formats for these names. The various formats are designed to support, but not require, a strong link to the referenced object, such that the referenced object may be authenticated to the same degree as the reference to it. The reason for this work is to standardise current uses of hash outputs in URLs and to support new information-centric applications and other uses of hash outputs in protocols.")
[`nih`](/concepts/uri-scheme/nih "Fields in nih URIs are separated by a semicolon (;) character. The first field is a hash algorithm string, as in the ni URI format.") | [**RFC 6920**: Naming Things with Hashes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6920 "This document defines a set of ways to identify a thing (a digital object in this case) using the output from a hash function. It specifies a new URI scheme for this purpose, a way to map these to HTTP URLs, and binary and human-speakable formats for these names. The various formats are designed to support, but not require, a strong link to the referenced object, such that the referenced object may be authenticated to the same degree as the reference to it. The reason for this work is to standardise current uses of hash outputs in URLs and to support new information-centric applications and other uses of hash outputs in protocols.")
[`payto`](/concepts/uri-scheme/payto "A 'payto' URI always identifies the target of a payment. A 'payto' URI consists of a payment target type, a target identifier, and optional parameters such as an amount or a payment reference. The interpretation of the target identifier is defined by the payment target type and typically represents either a bank account or an (unsettled) transaction. A unified URI scheme for all payment target types allows applications to offer user interactions with URIs that represent payment targets, simplifying the introduction of new payment systems and applications.") | [**RFC 8905**: The 'payto' URI scheme for payments](/specs/IETF/RFC/8905 "This document defines the 'payto' Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme for designating targets for payments. A unified URI scheme for all payment target types allows applications to offer user interactions with URIs that represent payment targets, simplifying the introduction of new payment systems and applications.")
[`pkcs11`](/concepts/uri-scheme/pkcs11 "The URI scheme defined in this document is designed specifically with a mapping to the PKCS #11 API in mind.") | [**RFC 7512**: The PKCS #11 URI Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/7512 "This memo specifies a PKCS #11 Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) Scheme for identifying PKCS #11 objects stored in PKCS #11 tokens and also for identifying PKCS #11 tokens, slots, or libraries.  The URI scheme is based on how PKCS #11 objects, tokens, slots, and libraries are identified in &#34;PKCS #11 v2.20: Cryptographic Token Interface Standard&#34;.")
[`pres`](/concepts/uri-scheme/pres "Use of the pres: URI follows closely usage of the mailto: URI. That is, invocation of an PRES URI will cause the user's instant messaging application to start, with destination address and message headers  fill-in according to the information supplied in the URI.") | [**RFC 3859**: Common Profile for Presence (CPP)](/specs/IETF/RFC/3859 "At the time this document was written, numerous presence protocols were in use (largely as components of commercial instant messaging services), and little interoperability between services based on these protocols has been achieved.  This specification defines common semantics and data formats for presence to facilitate the creation of gateways between presence services.")
[`reload`](/concepts/uri-scheme/reload "This section describes the scheme for a reload URI, which can be used to refer to either a peer (e.g., as used in a certificate), or a resource inside a peer.") | [**RFC 6940**: REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) Base Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/6940 "This specification defines REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD), a peer-to-peer (P2P) signaling protocol for use on the Internet. A P2P signaling protocol provides its clients with an abstract storage and messaging service between a set of cooperating peers that form the overlay network. RELOAD is designed to support a P2P Session Initiation Protocol (P2PSIP) network, but can be utilized by other applications with similar requirements by defining new usages that specify the Kinds of data that need to be stored for a particular application. RELOAD defines a security model based on a certificate enrollment service that provides unique identities. NAT traversal is a fundamental service of the protocol. RELOAD also allows access from &#34;client&#34; nodes that do not need to route traffic or store data for others.")
[`session`](/concepts/uri-scheme/session "The URI is intended to identify a data resource previously given to the network computing resource. The purpose of this scheme is to permit access to the specific resource for the lifetime of the session with the entity storing the resource.") | [**RFC 6768**: Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2 (MRCPv2)](/specs/IETF/RFC/6768 "The Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2 (MRCPv2) allows client hosts to control media service resources such as speech synthesizers, recognizers, verifiers, and identifiers residing in servers on the network. MRCPv2 is not a &#34;stand-alone&#34; protocol -- it relies on other protocols, such as the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), to coordinate MRCPv2 clients and servers and manage sessions between them, and the Session Description Protocol (SDP) to describe, discover, and exchange capabilities. It also depends on SIP and SDP to establish the media sessions and associated parameters between the media source or sink and the media server. Once this is done, the MRCPv2 exchange operates over the control session established above, allowing the client to control the media processing resources on the speech resource server.")
[`sms`](/concepts/uri-scheme/sms "This URI scheme provides information that can be used for sending SMS message(s) to specified recipient(s). The functionality is comparable to that of the &#34;mailto&#34; URI, which can also be used with a comma-separated list of email addresses.") | [**RFC 5724**: URI Scheme for Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) Short Message Service (SMS)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5724 "This memo specifies the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme &#34;sms&#34; for specifying one or more recipients for an SMS message. SMS messages are two-way paging messages that can be sent from and received by a mobile phone or a suitably equipped networked device.")
[`tag`](/concepts/uri-scheme/tag "A tag is a type of Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) designed to meet the following requirements: 1. Identifiers are likely to be unique across space and time, and come from a practically inexhaustible supply. 2. Identifiers are relatively convenient for humans to mint (create), read, type, remember etc. 3. No central registration is necessary, at least for holders of domain names or email addresses; and there is negligible cost to mint each new identifier. 4. The identifiers are independent of any particular resolution scheme.") | [**RFC 4151**: Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform Resource Locators](/specs/IETF/RFC/4151 "This document describes the &#34;tag&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme. Tag URIs (also known as &#34;tags&#34;) are designed to be unique across space and time while being tractable to humans. They are distinct from most other URIs in that they have no authoritative resolution mechanism. A tag may be used purely as an entity identifier. Furthermore, using tags has some advantages over the common practice of using &#34;http&#34; URIs as identifiers for non-HTTP-accessible resources.")
[`telnet`](/concepts/uri-scheme/telnet "The Telnet URL scheme is used to designate interactive services that may be accessed by the Telnet protocol.") | [**RFC 4248**: The telnet URI Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/4248 "This document specifies the telnet Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme that was originally specified in RFC 1738. The purpose of this document is to allow RFC 1738 to be made obsolete while keeping the information about the scheme on standards track.")
[`urn`](/concepts/uri-scheme/urn "A Uniform Resource Name (URN) is a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) that is assigned under the &#34;urn&#34; URI scheme and a particular URN namespace, with the intent that the URN will be a persistent, location-independent resource identifier. A URN namespace is a collection of such URNs, each of which is unique, assigned in a consistent and managed way, and assigned according to a common definition.") | [**RFC 8141**: Uniform Resource Names (URNs)](/specs/IETF/RFC/8141 "A Uniform Resource Name (URN) is a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) that is assigned under the &#34;urn&#34; URI scheme and a particular URN namespace, with the intent that the URN will be a persistent, location-independent resource identifier. With regard to URN syntax, this document defines the canonical syntax for URNs (in a way that is consistent with URI syntax), specifies methods for determining URN-equivalence, and discusses URI conformance. With regard to URN namespaces, this document specifies a method for defining a URN namespace and associating it with a namespace identifier, and it describes procedures for registering namespace identifiers with the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). This document obsoletes both RFCs 2141 and 3406.")
[`ws`](/concepts/uri-scheme/ws "The only operation for this scheme is to open a connection using the WebSocket Protocol.") | [**RFC 6455**: The WebSocket Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/6455 "The WebSocket Protocol enables two-way communication between a client running untrusted code in a controlled environment to a remote host that has opted-in to communications from that code. The security model used for this is the origin-based security model commonly used by web browsers. The protocol consists of an opening handshake followed by basic message framing, layered over TCP. The goal of this technology is to provide a mechanism for browser-based applications that need two-way communication with servers that does not rely on opening multiple HTTP connections (e.g., using XMLHttpRequest or <iframe>s and long polling).")
[`wss`](/concepts/uri-scheme/wss "The only operation for this scheme is to open a connection using the WebSocket Protocol, encrypted using TLS.") | [**RFC 6455**: The WebSocket Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/6455 "The WebSocket Protocol enables two-way communication between a client running untrusted code in a controlled environment to a remote host that has opted-in to communications from that code. The security model used for this is the origin-based security model commonly used by web browsers. The protocol consists of an opening handshake followed by basic message framing, layered over TCP. The goal of this technology is to provide a mechanism for browser-based applications that need two-way communication with servers that does not rely on opening multiple HTTP connections (e.g., using XMLHttpRequest or <iframe>s and long polling).")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../uri-scheme.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
