---
layout:    page
title:     "URI Schemes"
permalink: /concepts/uri-schemes
---



The following 15 URI Scheme definitions (15 distinct values) were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official URI Scheme registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes/uri-schemes.xhtml) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

URI Scheme | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`cap`](/concepts/uri-scheme/cap) | [**RFC 4324**: Calendar Access Protocol (CAP)](/specs/IETF/RFC/4324 "The Calendar Access Protocol (CAP) described in this memo permits a Calendar User (CU) to utilize a Calendar User Agent (CUA) to access an iCAL-based Calendar Store (CS). At the time of this writing, three vendors are implementing CAP, but it has already been determined that some changes are needed. In order to get implementation experience, the participants felt that a CAP specification is needed to preserve many years of work. Many properties in CAP which have had many years of debate, can be used by other iCalendar protocols.")
[`data`](/concepts/uri-scheme/data) | [**RFC 2397**: The "data" URL scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/2397 "A new URL scheme, &#34;data&#34;, is defined. It allows inclusion of small data items as &#34;immediate&#34; data, as if it had been included externally.")
[`example`](/concepts/uri-scheme/example) | [**RFC 7595**: Guidelines and Registration Procedures for URI Schemes](/specs/IETF/RFC/7595 "This document updates the guidelines and recommendations, as well as the IANA registration processes, for the definition of Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes.")
[`ftp`](/concepts/uri-scheme/ftp) | [**RFC 1738**: Uniform Resource Locators (URL)](/specs/IETF/RFC/1738 "This document specifies a Uniform Resource Locator (URL), the syntax and semantics of formalized information for location and access of resources via the Internet.")
[`geo`](/concepts/uri-scheme/geo) | [**RFC 5870**: A Uniform Resource Identifier for Geographic Locations ('geo' URI)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5870 "This document specifies a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) for geographic locations using the 'geo' scheme name. A 'geo' URI identifies a physical location in a two- or three-dimensional coordinate reference system in a compact, simple, human-readable, and protocol-independent way. The default coordinate reference system used is the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS-84).")
[`http`](/concepts/uri-scheme/http) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`https`](/concepts/uri-scheme/https) | [**RFC 7230**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing](/specs/IETF/RFC/7230 "The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information systems. HTTP has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. This document provides an overview of HTTP architecture and its associated terminology, defines the &#34;http&#34; and &#34;https&#34; Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes, defines the HTTP/1.1 message syntax and parsing requirements, and describes general security concerns for implementations.")
[`mailto`](/concepts/uri-scheme/mailto) | [**RFC 6068**: The 'mailto' URI Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/6068 "This document defines the format of Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) to identify resources that are reached using Internet mail. It adds better internationalization and compatibility with Internationalized Resource Identifiers to the previous syntax of 'mailto' URIs.")
[`ni`](/concepts/uri-scheme/ni) | [**RFC 6920**: Naming Things with Hashes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6920 "This document defines a set of ways to identify a thing (a digital object in this case) using the output from a hash function. It specifies a new URI scheme for this purpose, a way to map these to HTTP URLs, and binary and human-speakable formats for these names. The various formats are designed to support, but not require, a strong link to the referenced object, such that the referenced object may be authenticated to the same degree as the reference to it. The reason for this work is to standardise current uses of hash outputs in URLs and to support new information-centric applications and other uses of hash outputs in protocols.")
[`nih`](/concepts/uri-scheme/nih) | [**RFC 6920**: Naming Things with Hashes](/specs/IETF/RFC/6920 "This document defines a set of ways to identify a thing (a digital object in this case) using the output from a hash function. It specifies a new URI scheme for this purpose, a way to map these to HTTP URLs, and binary and human-speakable formats for these names. The various formats are designed to support, but not require, a strong link to the referenced object, such that the referenced object may be authenticated to the same degree as the reference to it. The reason for this work is to standardise current uses of hash outputs in URLs and to support new information-centric applications and other uses of hash outputs in protocols.")
[`reload`](/concepts/uri-scheme/reload) | [**RFC 6940**: REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD) Base Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/6940 "This specification defines REsource LOcation And Discovery (RELOAD), a peer-to-peer (P2P) signaling protocol for use on the Internet.  A P2P signaling protocol provides its clients with an abstract storage and messaging service between a set of cooperating peers that form the overlay network.  RELOAD is designed to support a P2P Session Initiation Protocol (P2PSIP) network, but can be utilized by other applications with similar requirements by defining new usages that specify the Kinds of data that need to be stored for a particular application.  RELOAD defines a security model based on a certificate enrollment service that provides unique identities.  NAT traversal is a fundamental service of the protocol.  RELOAD also allows access from &#34;client&#34; nodes that do not need to route traffic or store data for others.")
[`sms`](/concepts/uri-scheme/sms) | [**RFC 5724**: URI Scheme for Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) Short Message Service (SMS)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5724 "This memo specifies the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme &#34;sms&#34; for specifying one or more recipients for an SMS message. SMS messages are two-way paging messages that can be sent from and received by a mobile phone or a suitably equipped networked device.")
[`telnet`](/concepts/uri-scheme/telnet) | [**RFC 4248**: The telnet URI Scheme](/specs/IETF/RFC/4248 "This document specifies the telnet Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) scheme that was originally specified in RFC 1738. The purpose of this document is to allow RFC 1738 to be made obsolete while keeping the information about the scheme on standards track.")
[`ws`](/concepts/uri-scheme/ws) | [**RFC 6455**: The WebSocket Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/6455 "The WebSocket Protocol enables two-way communication between a client running untrusted code in a controlled environment to a remote host that has opted-in to communications from that code. The security model used for this is the origin-based security model commonly used by web browsers. The protocol consists of an opening handshake followed by basic message framing, layered over TCP. The goal of this technology is to provide a mechanism for browser-based applications that need two-way communication with servers that does not rely on opening multiple HTTP connections (e.g., using XMLHttpRequest or <iframe>s and long polling).")
[`wss`](/concepts/uri-scheme/wss) | [**RFC 6455**: The WebSocket Protocol](/specs/IETF/RFC/6455 "The WebSocket Protocol enables two-way communication between a client running untrusted code in a controlled environment to a remote host that has opted-in to communications from that code. The security model used for this is the origin-based security model commonly used by web browsers. The protocol consists of an opening handshake followed by basic message framing, layered over TCP. The goal of this technology is to provide a mechanism for browser-based applications that need two-way communication with servers that does not rely on opening multiple HTTP connections (e.g., using XMLHttpRequest or <iframe>s and long polling).")
