---
layout:    page
title:     "URN Namespaces"
permalink: /concepts/urn-namespaces
---



The following 8 URN Namespace values (8 distinct values) were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official URN Namespace registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/urn-namespaces/urn-namespaces.xhtml) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

URN Namespace | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`example`](/concepts/urn-namespace/example) | [**RFC 6963**: A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Examples](/specs/IETF/RFC/6963 "This document defines a Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace identifier enabling the generation of URNs that are appropriate for use in documentation and in URN-related testing and experimentation.")
[`ietf`](/concepts/urn-namespace/ietf) | [**RFC 2648**: A URN Namespace for IETF Documents](/specs/IETF/RFC/2648 "A system for Uniform Resource Names (URNs) must be capable of supporting new naming systems. As an example of proposing a new namespace, this document proposes the &#34;ietf&#34; namespace. This namespace consists of the RFC family of documents (RFCs, STDs, FYIs, and BCPs) developed by the IETF and published by the RFC Editor, the minutes of working groups (WG) and birds of a feather (BOF) meetings that occur during IETF conferences, and the Internet Drafts published by the Internet Drafts Editor. Both the current URN framework and URN syntax support this namespace.")
[`isbn`](/concepts/urn-namespace/isbn) | [**RFC 3187**: Using International Standard Book Numbers as Uniform Resource Names](/specs/IETF/RFC/3187 "This document discusses how International Standard Book Numbers (ISBN) can be supported within the URN (Uniform Resource Names) framework and the syntax for URNs defined in RFC 2141. Much of the discussion below is based on the ideas expressed in RFC 2288.")
[`iso`](/concepts/urn-namespace/iso) | [**RFC 5141**: A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5141 "This document describes a Uniform Resource Name Namespace Identification (URN NID) for the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). This URN NID is intended for use for the identification of persistent resources published by the ISO standards body (including documents, document metadata, extracted resources such as standard schemata and standard value sets, and other resources).")
[`issn`](/concepts/urn-namespace/issn) | [**RFC 3044**: Using The ISSN (International Serial Standard Number) as URN (Uniform Resource Names) within an ISSN-URN Namespace](/specs/IETF/RFC/3044 "This document presents how the ISSN - International Standard Serial Number - which is a persistent number for unique identification of serials widely recognised and used in the bibliographic world, can be supported within the Uniform Resource Name (URN) framework as a specific URN namespace identifier. An ISSN URN resolution system using the ISSN identifier as Uniform resource Name within an ISN URN Namespace has been developed by the ISSN International Centre (ISSN-IC) and is operating as a demonstrator to evaluate all requirements to deploy it in an operational environment. This proceeds from concepts and proposals developed in several IETF RFCs emphasising the way to implement and to use &#34;recognised&#34; existing numbering system within the URN framework (RFC 2248, RFC 2141, RFC 2611).")
[`nfc`](/concepts/urn-namespace/nfc) | [**RFC 4729**: A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for the Near Field Communication (NFC) Forum](/specs/IETF/RFC/4729 "This document describes the Namespace Identifier (NID) for Uniform Resource Name (URN) resources published by the Near Field Communication (NFC) Forum. The NFC Forum defines and manages resources that utilize this URN identification model. Management activities for these and other resource types are provided by the NFC Forum Technical Committee.")
[`oasis`](/concepts/urn-namespace/oasis) | [**RFC 3121**: A URN Namespace for OASIS](/specs/IETF/RFC/3121 "This document describes a URN (Uniform Resource Name) namespace that is engineered by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) for naming persistent resources published by OASIS (such as OASIS Standards, XML (Extensible Markup Language) Document Type Definitions, XML Schemas, Namespaces, Stylesheets, and other documents).")
[`uuid`](/concepts/urn-namespace/uuid) | [**RFC 4122**: A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN Namespace](/specs/IETF/RFC/4122 "This specification defines a Uniform Resource Name namespace for UUIDs (Universally Unique IDentifier), also known as GUIDs (Globally Unique IDentifier). A UUID is 128 bits long, and can guarantee uniqueness across space and time. UUIDs were originally used in the Apollo Network Computing System and later in the Open Software Foundation's (OSF) Distributed Computing Environment (DCE), and then in Microsoft Windows platforms. This specification is derived from the DCE specification with the kind permission of the OSF (now known as The Open Group). Information from earlier versions of the DCE specification have been incorporated into this document.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="urn-namespaces.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
