---
layout:    page
title:     "URN Namespaces"
permalink: /concepts/urn-namespace/
---



The following 14 URN Namespace values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official URN Namespace registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/urn-namespaces/urn-namespaces.xhtml) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

URN Namespace | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`adid`](/concepts/urn-namespace/adid "Ad-ID is the industry standard for identifying advertising assets across all media platforms (e.g., over the air, online, over the top, mobile, and place based). Ad-IDs are unique codes for each creative advertising asset. Those unique codes are applied to all media.") | [**RFC 8107**: Advertising Digital Identifier (Ad-ID) URN Namespace Definition](/specs/IETF/RFC/8107 "Advertising Digital Identifiers (Ad-IDs) are used to identify advertising assets across all media platforms. This document defines the formal Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace Identifier (NID) &#34;adid&#34; for Ad-IDs.")
[`bbf`](/concepts/urn-namespace/bbf "The &#34;bbf&#34; NID is for new work efforts related to data models for protocols other than the Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) WAN Management Protocol (CWMP).") | [**RFC 8057**: Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespaces for Broadband Forum](/specs/IETF/RFC/8057 "This document describes the Namespace Identifiers (NIDs) &#34;bbf&#34;, &#34;broadband-forum-org&#34;, and &#34;dslforum-org&#34; for Uniform Resource Names (URNs) used to identify resources published by Broadband Forum (BBF). BBF specifies and manages resources that utilize these three URN identification models. Management activities for these and other resource types are handled by BBF.")
[`broadband-forum-org`](/concepts/urn-namespace/broadband-forum-org "The &#34;broadband-forum-org&#34; and &#34;dslforum-org&#34; NIDs are used for all data models related to CWMP.") | [**RFC 8057**: Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespaces for Broadband Forum](/specs/IETF/RFC/8057 "This document describes the Namespace Identifiers (NIDs) &#34;bbf&#34;, &#34;broadband-forum-org&#34;, and &#34;dslforum-org&#34; for Uniform Resource Names (URNs) used to identify resources published by Broadband Forum (BBF). BBF specifies and manages resources that utilize these three URN identification models. Management activities for these and other resource types are handled by BBF.")
[`dslforum-org`](/concepts/urn-namespace/dslforum-org "The &#34;broadband-forum-org&#34; and &#34;dslforum-org&#34; NIDs are used for all data models related to CWMP. Use of the &#34;dslforum-org&#34; NID started prior the organization's 2008 name change from DSL Forum to Broadband Forum.") | [**RFC 8057**: Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespaces for Broadband Forum](/specs/IETF/RFC/8057 "This document describes the Namespace Identifiers (NIDs) &#34;bbf&#34;, &#34;broadband-forum-org&#34;, and &#34;dslforum-org&#34; for Uniform Resource Names (URNs) used to identify resources published by Broadband Forum (BBF). BBF specifies and manages resources that utilize these three URN identification models. Management activities for these and other resource types are handled by BBF.")
[`eurosystem`](/concepts/urn-namespace/eurosystem "The goal of the &#34;eurosystem&#34; namespace is to ensure the stability and uniqueness of the names of various items that are used within the messages exchanged between the Eurosystem and the users of TARGET2-Securities (or potentially, other future projects of the Eurosystem).") | [**RFC 7207**: A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Eurosystem Messaging](/specs/IETF/RFC/7207 "This document defines and registers with IANA a Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace for usage within messages standardized by the Eurosystem. The URN namespace is managed by Deutsche Bundesbank, which is a member of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB).")
[`example`](/concepts/urn-namespace/example "The &#34;example&#34; NID is intended to provide a clean, easily recognizable space for minting examples to be used in documentation and in URN-related testing and experimentation. ") | [**RFC 6963**: A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Examples](/specs/IETF/RFC/6963 "This document defines a Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace identifier enabling the generation of URNs that are appropriate for use in documentation and in URN-related testing and experimentation.")
[`ieee`](/concepts/urn-namespace/ieee "The Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) is an organization whose objectives include the educational and technical advancement of electrical and electronic engineering, telecommunications, computer engineering, and allied disciplines. As part of these specification efforts, there is a need to maintain identifiers in a managed namespace that is unique and persistent.") | [**RFC 8069**: URN Namespace for IEEE](/specs/IETF/RFC/8069 "This document describes the Namespace Identifier (NID) 'ieee' for Uniform Resource Names (URNs) used to identify resources published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). IEEE specifies and manages resources that utilize this URN identification model. Management activities for these and other resources types are handled by the manager of the IEEE Registration Authority.")
[`ietf`](/concepts/urn-namespace/ietf "This document proposes the &#34;ietf&#34; namespace, which consists of the RFC family of documents (RFCs, STDs, FYIs, and BCPs) developed by the IETF and published by the RFC editor and the minutes of working groups (WG) and birds of a feather (BOF) meetings that occur during IETF conferences.") | [**RFC 2648**: A URN Namespace for IETF Documents](/specs/IETF/RFC/2648 "A system for Uniform Resource Names (URNs) must be capable of supporting new naming systems. As an example of proposing a new namespace, this document proposes the &#34;ietf&#34; namespace. This namespace consists of the RFC family of documents (RFCs, STDs, FYIs, and BCPs) developed by the IETF and published by the RFC Editor, the minutes of working groups (WG) and birds of a feather (BOF) meetings that occur during IETF conferences, and the Internet Drafts published by the Internet Drafts Editor. Both the current URN framework and URN syntax support this namespace.")
[`isbn`](/concepts/urn-namespace/isbn "An International Standard Book Number (ISBN) identifies an edition of a monographic work. The ISBN is defined by the standard NISO/ANSI/ISO 2108:1992.") | [**RFC 3187**: Using International Standard Book Numbers as Uniform Resource Names](/specs/IETF/RFC/3187 "This document discusses how International Standard Book Numbers (ISBN) can be supported within the URN (Uniform Resource Names) framework and the syntax for URNs defined in RFC 2141. Much of the discussion below is based on the ideas expressed in RFC 2288.")
[`iso`](/concepts/urn-namespace/iso "This specification defines the syntax for URNs that identify documents developed by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in accordance with the standards development procedures defined in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1 and the ISO supplement and processed by the ISO Central Secretariat.") | [**RFC 5141**: A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)](/specs/IETF/RFC/5141 "This document describes a Uniform Resource Name Namespace Identification (URN NID) for the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). This URN NID is intended for use for the identification of persistent resources published by the ISO standards body (including documents, document metadata, extracted resources such as standard schemata and standard value sets, and other resources).")
[`issn`](/concepts/urn-namespace/issn "In accordance with the ISO standard 3297 International Standard Serial Number (ISSN). The ISSN consists of eight digits in Arabic numerals 0 to 9, except the last digit which is a check digit and can sometimes be an X. The ISSN has no internal meaningful elements to identify language, country, publisher.") | [**RFC 3044**: Using The ISSN (International Serial Standard Number) as URN (Uniform Resource Names) within an ISSN-URN Namespace](/specs/IETF/RFC/3044 "This document presents how the ISSN - International Standard Serial Number - which is a persistent number for unique identification of serials widely recognised and used in the bibliographic world, can be supported within the Uniform Resource Name (URN) framework as a specific URN namespace identifier. An ISSN URN resolution system using the ISSN identifier as Uniform resource Name within an ISN URN Namespace has been developed by the ISSN International Centre (ISSN-IC) and is operating as a demonstrator to evaluate all requirements to deploy it in an operational environment. This proceeds from concepts and proposals developed in several IETF RFCs emphasising the way to implement and to use &#34;recognised&#34; existing numbering system within the URN framework (RFC 2248, RFC 2141, RFC 2611).")
[`nfc`](/concepts/urn-namespace/nfc "NFC Forum working groups will manage the assignment of NFC resources and the specific registration values assigned for each resource class. The Technical Committee will coordinate creation of new resource class assignments based on community need.") | [**RFC 4729**: A Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for the Near Field Communication (NFC) Forum](/specs/IETF/RFC/4729 "This document describes the Namespace Identifier (NID) for Uniform Resource Name (URN) resources published by the Near Field Communication (NFC) Forum. The NFC Forum defines and manages resources that utilize this URN identification model. Management activities for these and other resource types are provided by the NFC Forum Technical Committee.")
[`oasis`](/concepts/urn-namespace/oasis "The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) produces many kinds of documents: specifications, working drafts, technical resolutions, schemas, stylesheets, etc. OASIS wishes to provide global, distributed, persistent, location-independent names for these resources.") | [**RFC 3121**: A URN Namespace for OASIS](/specs/IETF/RFC/3121 "This document describes a URN (Uniform Resource Name) namespace that is engineered by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) for naming persistent resources published by OASIS (such as OASIS Standards, XML (Extensible Markup Language) Document Type Definitions, XML Schemas, Namespaces, Stylesheets, and other documents).")
[`uuid`](/concepts/urn-namespace/uuid "A UUID is an identifier that is unique across both space and time, with respect to the space of all UUIDs. Since a UUID is a fixed size and contains a time field, it is possible for values to rollover (around A.D. 3400, depending on the specific algorithm used).") | [**RFC 4122**: A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN Namespace](/specs/IETF/RFC/4122 "This specification defines a Uniform Resource Name namespace for UUIDs (Universally Unique IDentifier), also known as GUIDs (Globally Unique IDentifier). A UUID is 128 bits long, and can guarantee uniqueness across space and time. UUIDs were originally used in the Apollo Network Computing System and later in the Open Software Foundation's (OSF) Distributed Computing Environment (DCE), and then in Microsoft Windows platforms. This specification is derived from the DCE specification with the kind permission of the OSF (now known as The Open Group). Information from earlier versions of the DCE specification have been incorporated into this document.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../urn-namespace.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
