---
layout:    page
title:     "XML Schemas"
permalink: /concepts/xml-schema/
---



The following 3 XML Schema values were found in [all available `webconcepts.info` specifications](/specs). Please be advised that the table shown here is maintained and compiled from [Web Concepts](/) sources. The [official XML Schema registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/xml-registry/xml-registry.xhtml#schema) is maintained by the [*Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)*](http://www.iana.org/).

XML Schema | Specification
-------: | :-------
[`urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:basic-location-profiles`](/concepts/xml-schema/urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:basic-location-profiles "The Basic Location Profile XML schema extends the Common Policy schema by introducing new child elements to the transformation element.") | [**RFC 6772**: Geolocation Policy: A Document Format for Expressing Privacy Preferences for Location Information](/specs/IETF/RFC/6772 "This document defines an authorization policy language for controlling access to location information.  It extends the Common Policy authorization framework to provide location-specific access control.  More specifically, this document defines condition elements specific to location information in order to restrict access to data based on the current location of the Target. Furthermore, this document defines two algorithms for reducing the granularity of returned location information.  The first algorithm is defined for usage with civic location information, whereas the other one applies to geodetic location information.  Both algorithms come with limitations.  There are circumstances where the amount of location obfuscation provided is less than what is desired.  These algorithms might not be appropriate for all application domains.")
[`urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:common-policy`](/concepts/xml-schema/urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:common-policy "This document defines a framework for authorization policies controlling access to application-specific data. This framework combines common location- and presence-specific authorization aspects. An XML schema specifies the language in which common policy rules are represented. The common policy framework can be extended to other application domains.") | [**RFC 4745**: Common Policy: A Document Format for Expressing Privacy Preferences](/specs/IETF/RFC/4745 "This document defines a framework for authorization policies controlling access to application-specific data. This framework combines common location- and presence-specific authorization aspects. An XML schema specifies the language in which common policy rules are represented. The common policy framework can be extended to other application domains.")
[`urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:geolocation-policy`](/concepts/xml-schema/urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:geolocation-policy "The Geolocation Policy XML schema extends the Common Policy schema by introducing new child elements to the condition and transformation elements.") | [**RFC 6772**: Geolocation Policy: A Document Format for Expressing Privacy Preferences for Location Information](/specs/IETF/RFC/6772 "This document defines an authorization policy language for controlling access to location information.  It extends the Common Policy authorization framework to provide location-specific access control.  More specifically, this document defines condition elements specific to location information in order to restrict access to data based on the current location of the Target. Furthermore, this document defines two algorithms for reducing the granularity of returned location information.  The first algorithm is defined for usage with civic location information, whereas the other one applies to geodetic location information.  Both algorithms come with limitations.  There are circumstances where the amount of location obfuscation provided is less than what is desired.  These algorithms might not be appropriate for all application domains.")

<br/>
<hr/>

<p style="float : left"><a href="../xml-schema.json" title="JSON representing all values for this Web Concept">JSON</a></p>
